GOOD EVENING AND WELCOME
TO THE DECEMBER 15TH 20 25
MEETING OF THE UNIVERSITY
COUNCIL IF YOU ARE ABLE PLEASE
RISE AND JOIN US FOR A MOMENT
OF SILENCE FOLLOWED BY THE
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
JUST
WILL
THE WILL THE CLERK PLEASE CALL
THE ROLE OF COUNCIL MEMBER
AGAIN HERE FOR HARRISON HERE
CUSTOMER WATSON HERE COMES FROM
OUT HERE CUSTOMER DENHA HERE
BECAUSE BERGONZI HAD HERE MAYOR
TAYLOR PERHAPS IT PELTZMAN IRE
HERE BECAUSE OF OUR ACKMANN
HERE CUSTOMER BRIGG'S HERE,
CUSTOMER CORNELL APSA.
WE HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
CAN I PLEASE GET A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA OF MY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR POST
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
NEXT WE COME TO COMMUNICATIONS
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS THIS EVENING?
NOTHING THIS EVENING.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP, WE HAVE AN
INTRODUCTION FROM THE DATA SO I
WILL INVITE OUR OUR FRIEND MATT
CARPENTER TO THE PODIUM AND
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL HAPPY
HOLIDAYS.
IT'S NICE TO SEE YOU.
GOOD TO SEE EVERYONE ON SUCH A
CHILLY EVENING.
A FEW OPERATIONAL DATES FROM
YOUR FRIENDS AT THE RIDE AND
THEN I'LL LEAVE YOU FOR YOUR
REST OF YOUR MEETING.
FIRST OF ALL, WE'RE VERY
EXCITED AND ARBOR'S FIRST
BUSTLINE OPENED THIS LAST WEEK
ON STATE STREET.
WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT IT.
OUR DRIVERS AND PASSENGERS ARE
OVER THE MOON ABOUT IT.
WE WANT TO THANK YOU FOR ALL
YOUR SUPPORT.
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
OBVIOUSLY FOR CARRYING MOST
OF THE COST.
WE CHIPPED IN A LITTLE BIT
OURSELVES.
THERE'S ALSO YOU MAY NOT NOTICE
IT A TRANSIT SIGNAL PRIORITY
ELEMENT OF IT AS WELL.
I THINK ONE OF THE
INTERSECTIONS IS TO LET THE
BUSSES PASS THROUGH QUICKLY.
SO GREAT NEWS THERE FROM A
TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION POINT
OF VIEW.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT
TO THAT.
AS YOU'VE HEARD RECENTLY I
THINK FROM THE DENHA NEXT YEAR
IS GOING TO BE A BIG
CONSTRUCTION SEASON FOR
DOWNTOWN PARTICULARLY AROUND
THE WILLOTT AND FOURTH AVENUE.
THERE'S BASICALLY FOURTH AVENUE
IS GOING TO GET COMPLETELY TORN
UP AND AT SOME POINTS WILL BE
IMPASSABLE.
UNFORTUNATELY THAT IS WILL BE
ANNOYING FOR LOTS OF FOLKS
AROUND THE CITY BUT IT'S AN
IMPORTANT SHORT TERM
INCONVENIENCE FOR LONG TERM
GAIN.
UNFORTUNATELY, FOURTH AVENUE IS
WHERE WE PARK MOST OF OUR
BUSSES NEXT TO THE TRANSIT
CENTER.
SO WE ARE ANTICIPATING
SIGNIFICANT DISRUPTION FOR
CUSTOMERS.
WE HAVE BEGUN COMMUNICATING
THAT PUBLICLY.
YOU WILL SEE THAT BEGIN TO RAMP
UP THROUGHOUT THE YEAR AS WE
PROCEED NEXT YEAR TOWARDS
CONSTRUCTION.
THERE MAY BE TIMES WHEN THE
TRANSIT CENTER IS NOT OPEN OR
ACCESSIBLE.
WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DRIVE
BUSSES INTO IT BUT AGAIN SHORT
TERM PAIN, LONG TERM GAIN WE
WILL WORK WITH THE CITY AND THE
DDA AND ALL THE PARTNERS TO
MAKE SURE IT COMES OFF VERY
WELL AND THEN WE'LL ALL BE
HAPPY WHEN IT THROUGH IT
HOLIDAY SERVICE EVERY YEAR WE
DO NOT RUN BUS SERVICE ON
CHRISTMAS DAY OR NEW YEAR'S DAY
.
SERVICES RESUME AS NORMAL THE
FOLLOWING DAY SO ANYONE
PLANNING TO TRAVEL BY BUS
AROUND THE HOLIDAYS WE
ENCOURAGE YOU TO CHECK THE
WEBSITE FOR ANY DISRUPTIONS.
PLAN YOUR TRIPS CAREFULLY
PARTICULARLY ON DAYS AND THEN
FINALLY IN JANUARY FEBRUARY
WE'RE GOING TO BE RUNNING OUR
REGULAR CONQUERED THE COLD
CHALLENGE OUR FOLKS GET TO
COMPETE BY BIKING, WALKING,
TRANSIT OR CARPOOLING.
YOU CAN SCORE POINTS.
YOU CAN BEAT YOUR NEIGHBOR.
YOU CAN BE THE CONQUER THE COLD
CHAMPION OF YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE STRONGLY ENCOURAGE EVERYONE
TO TO CHECK OUT LAST YEAR WE
HAD ALMOST FOUR HUNDRED
PARTICIPANTS WE HOPE TO AT FOUR
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THIS YEAR.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
ATTENTION THIS EVENING.
>> I HOPE YOU ALL HAVE A
WONDERFUL HOLIDAY.
TAKE CARE.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT.
PUBLIC COMMENT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT ONE MUST HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING A CITY CLERK.
SPEAKERS HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
SPEAK AND ONLY ONE PERSON IS
ALLOWED TO SPEAK AT A TIME.
FOR THOSE JOINING US REMOTELY,
THE CITY CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU
WHEN YOU HAVE THIRTY SECONDS
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED.
>> FIRST UP THIS EVENING WE
HAVE TOM STALBERG.
MR. STOLLBERG IS JOINING US ON
HOLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER AND
FIVE THREE FOUR GO AHEAD STOBO
CALLING TO ONE TO TWO TO
ILLUSTRATE HOW THE TOWN I'M
CALLING ABC THREE WHICH IS THE
CAPITAL APPLIED TO THE COUNTY
COMMISSION AND I'D LIKE TO
REQUEST THAT WE APPOINT
SOMEBODY EITHER ROBERT BENTLEY
,THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
THE TIME IS NOT MANDATORY AND
OTHERS CAN SERVE ON IT AND DO A
FINE JOB RIGHT NOW WE HAVE A
VERY IMPORTANT TIME ON THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO WRAP UP
OUR LAND USE PLAN AND TO WRITE
ONE IN CODE AND THEN GO THROUGH
WITH WARNINGS.
UNFORTUNATELY COUPLE
OF ADDITIONAL TIME ON FIRE SO
FAR AND REPORTING BACK THE
COUNCIL HAVE BEEN PRETTY HIGH
IN TERMS OF HER ERROR RATE SO I
THINK WE CAN PUT SOMEBODY UP ON
THERE WHO MIGHT BE A BETTER
LISTENER LECTURER AND LEARN A
LITTLE BIT MORE AND GET THINGS
A BIT MORE RIGHT RECENTLY I
HAPPEN TO KNOW THE LET'S JUST
GO TO A RECENT TRIAL PRIOR TO
HARRIS AND THE MAYOR AND THE
MAYOR TO ENACT THE INFORMATION
SPREAD.
YES.
UNDER MR SUSPICIOUS COLUMN SHE
SPREAD MISINFORMATION ABOUT
CASE IN THE RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING CATEGORY.
I'M SORRY YOU JUST KEPT GOING
UP AND COMING UP WITH RAMSEY.
I JUST WENT OUT WITH ONE PRETTY
WIDE DISTRIBUTION SO WE NEED
OUR HOUSE MEMBERS.
THIS IS COMMUNICATION WITH
HOLLY READING SCUTARI WHAT WE
ACCURACY NOW WHENEVER WE
BRANGUS CLAIM IS WAS IN OUR
COMMUNITY RIGHT NOW THERE'S
OTHER ITEMS WHERE SHE'S JUST
INACCURATE AND WE HAVE TO
PRETTY BIG I COMING UP.
SO I WANT TO GET SOMEBODY WHO'S
NOT A PROTECTIONIST OF THE
APPOINTED TO THIS POSITION
EVERYBODY TO SHEPHERD US THE
COMPREHENSIVE RESPONSE A AND
FROM MEMBER STATION.
>> THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE THOMAS WHEATER
THE ONLY RESPONSE IS
APPROPRIATE TO THE PLAN TO
ENLARGE THE DDA DISTRICT
BOUNDARIES IS THIS YOU'VE GOT
TO BE FRIGGING KIDDING ME AND
THE REST OF THE CITIZENS OF ANN
ARBOR AS IT'S AS HIS FIRST
FINDING THE MICHIGAN STATUTE
WHICH AUTHORIZES NIDA'S DEFINES
A PROBLEM AS QUOTE CONDITIONS
OF PROPERTY VALUE DETERIORATION
DETRIMENTAL TO THE STATE
ECONOMY.
IT FURTHER STATES THAT
GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS ARE
NECESSARY TO ELIMINATE THE
CAUSES OF PROPERTY VALUE
DETERIORATE AND OUR ORDINANCE
PARROTS THAT LANGUAGE STATING
ITS PURPOSE TO HALT PROPERTY
VALUE DETERIORATION AND TO
ELIMINATE THE CAUSES THAT
DETERIORATION.
CAN ANYBODY AROUND THAT TABLE
SUGGEST WITH A STRAIGHT FACE
THAT THERE'S A PROBLEM
OF PROPERTY VALUE DETERIORATION
AND ENORMOUS DENHA DISTRICT?
THERE MAY HAVE BEEN BRIEF TIMES
DURING A FORTY THREE YEAR
EXISTENCE WHEN PROPERTY VALUES
DECLINE BUT THAT CERTAINLY HAS
NOT BEEN THE CASE IN RECENT
MEMORY IN RECENT YEARS PROPERTY
VALUATION IN THE DEED A
DISTRICT HAS SOARED BY A
BILLION DOLLARS OR MORE.
THERE'S ABSOLUTELY NO EVIDENCE
OF A DECLINE WHICH JUSTIFIES
THE CONTINUED EXISTENCE OF A
TEFT TO SUBSIDIZE THE DOWNTOWN
WHICH HAS BY FAR THE HIGHEST
PROPERTY VALUES IN THE CITY.
I QUESTION WHETHER THE TENS
OF MILLIONS OF SPENT BY THE
D.A. OVER ITS FORTY THREE YEARS
ARE SIGNIFICANTLY RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE HEALTH OF THE DOWNTOWN.
IF ANYONE CAN EMPIRICALLY
DEMONSTRATE THAT IT HAS I'D
LIKE TO SEE IT.
IF THE DENHA IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
THE GOOD HEALTH OF DOWNTOWN,
TODAY'S DOWNTOWN SHOULD BE
THANKED SERVICE AND WOUND DOWN.
IF ON THE OTHER HAND DOWNTOWN
HASN'T BEEN MADE HEALTHY AFTER
FORTY THREE YEARS THAT SHOULD
BE WOUND DOWN BECAUSE IT HASN'T
WORKED HOW MANY MILLIONS MORE
MIGHT BE SPENT ON PROJECTS THE
PUBLIC HASN'T ASKED FOR OR EVEN
ASKED IF THEY WANTED SOME
OF WHICH LEAVING THEM SCRATCH
THEIR HEADS ABOUT THE PURPOSE?
I'M STILL LOOKING FOR SOMEONE
WHO CAN FIGURE OUT TAKING OUT
SOME CURBS ESTATE AND LIBERTY
HAS ACCOMPLISHED FOR THE CITY
AT VERY GREAT COST.
TAKE THAT MONEY OR SHOULD I SAY
LEAVE THAT MONEY SO IT CAN BE
USED FOR WHAT YOUR CONSTITUENTS
WOULD FIND MORE USEFUL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP IS REBECCA ARENDSE.
HELLO EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS REBECCA ARUN'S.
I'M A WARD ONE RESIDENT A
DOWNTOWN BUSINESS OWNER AND I'M
HERE ADVOCATING FOR DOWNTOWN
BUSINESSES, RESIDENTS I GUESS A
WEEK AGO I WENT TO A RESTAURANT
DOWNTOWN RIGHT THERE OFF
LIBERTY IN MAINE AND THERE ARE
THREE BOXES THAT HAVE BEEN IN
THERE FOR A DECADE COVERED WITH
GRAFFITI AND STICKERS AND HAVE
BEEN NONFUNCTIONAL FOR THAT
MUCH OF TIME AT LEAST.
AND I ASKED THE OWNER WOULD YOU
LIKE ME TO REPORT THIS CLICK
FIX?
HE'S LIKE THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
AND THEN HE SAID SOMETHING TO
STOP ME.
HE'D RESIGN HIMSELF TO THEIR
PRESENCE.
THAT RESIGNATION IS A PROBLEM.
I EMAILED A DAY THREE DAYS AND
A RESPONSE.
THIS IS NOT THE FIRST TIME I
THEN FORWARDED THE CONCERN TO
CITY COUNCIL.
YOU THE MAYOR, MAINSTREAMERS,
LEADERSHIP AND AGAIN NOW
THEY'RE ASKING FOR MORE OF OUR
TAX DOLLARS.
THERE'S A PATTERN OF UNRELIABLE
RESPONSIVENESS AND A LACK
OF TRANSPARENCY AGENDAS AND
MEETING MINUTES ARE SPARSE AND
RECORDINGS OR TRANSCRIPTS ARE
NOT CONSISTENTLY AVAILABLE.
FOR EXAMPLE, MAIN STREET BURS
HAS A YEAR AND A HALF WORTH
OF MEETINGS WITH NO LINKS.
THERE IS NO ANNUAL REPORT FOR
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE.
>> THE LAST REPORT WAS A YEAR
AND A HALF AGO AND IN THAT
REPORT THEY SAID ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS WAS ALLOCATED
TO SIDEWALKS SWEEPING LAST
YEAR.
SO IF YOU GO TO NICHOLS' YOU'RE
GOING TO HATE ME BUT YOU'LL
NEVER BE ABLE TO UNSEE THIS.
SOME SPOTS ARE EVERYWHERE AND
THIS ADDS TO A SENSE OF DECAY.
WE HAVE WEEDY MEDIANS.
WE HAVE UNKEMPT GRAFFITI IS
MUSHROOMING EVERYWHERE AND TEN
YEARS AGO I DID A PROJECT THAT
IS QUALITATIVE I'M SORRY
QUANTITATIVE TO SEE IF WE COULD
ADDRESS SOME OF THIS BLIGHT AND
IT WAS VERY EFFECTIVE.
NOW I'M DOING A QUALITATIVE
STUDY.
I HAVE BEEN TALKING TO MANY
BUSINESS OWNERS AND COLLECTING
THEIR STORIES.
FRANKLY THEY'RE NOT HAPPY.
THEY DON'T FEEL SUPPORTED.
THEY CALL THE EMAIL OFTEN THEIR
CONCERNS ARE NOT MET.
WHAT WE NEED IS WHAT WE KNOW
SOCIAL WORK IS PROCESS AND
OUTCOME EVALUATION.
WHERE ARE WE ASKING THE
STAKEHOLDERS IF THEIR NEEDS ARE
BEING MET?
THIS SHOULD BE DONE A MINIMUM
OF ONCE PER YEAR SO I SUGGEST
THAT YOU JOIN ME IN MY
QUALITATIVE STUDY BEFORE YOU
GIVE THE DDA MORE MONEY AND
LET'S TAKE ANONYMOUS SURVEYS
OF ACTUAL BUSINESS OWNERS AND
SEE IF THEY'RE PLEASED WITH
THEIR SERVICES PROVIDED I DO
WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE PROGRESS
WHERE IT EXISTS MICROBE
POLICING AND MOVEMENT ON THE
UNARMED RESPONSE MATTER, CHIEF
ANDERSON HAS BROUGHT EVIDENCE
BASED IDEAS WE'RE FORTUNATE TO
HAVE HIS SERVICE BUT AGAIN AT A
MINIMUM THERE SHOULD BE ANNUAL
BEST PRACTICE PROCESS AND
OUTCOME EVALUATIONS THROUGH OUR
PROGRAMS EFFECTIVELY ADDRESSING
THE STATED GOALS BEFORE ASKING
FOR MILLIONS MORE IN PUBLIC
FUNDS.
>> LET'S HAVE TRANSPARENCY.
THANK YOU.
>> NEXT UP WE HAVE RICHARD
STOLLAR, SZULC
COLLAR'S JOINING
FONZO
RICHARD STALLER SHOW
RETIRED PROFESSOR I YES.
>> I'M SORRY SIR.
CAN YOU CAN YOU CALL OUT FOR A
QUICK SEC?
WE HAVE WE HAVE FOLKS WHO ARE
STANDING IN THE ROOM.
CAN YOU PLEASE SIT DOWN SO
FOLKS BEHIND YOU CAN CAN
NEVERTHELESS THE RULES OF THE
BODY REQUEST THAT PEOPLE SIT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
APPRECIATE THAT, SIR.
MY APOLOGIES.
PLEASE CONTINUE.
YOUR TIME WILL BE YOURS.
RETIRED PROFESSOR WASN'T
AVAILABLE FOR TWENTY EIGHT
YEARS.
I'M AN ADVOCATE WITH THE LOCAL
GRASSROOTS GROUP MOVEMENT FOR
HUMAN RIGHTS ACTION AND THE
CITY COUNCIL TO DO MORE TO
PROTECT THE RIGHTS OF OUR
EUROPEAN NEIGHBORS AS WELL.
NOTARIZED AGENTS OF IMMIGRATION
,CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT ICE AND
CUSTOMS AND BORDER PATROL CBP
ENGAGING IN SURVEILLANCE AND
RACIAL PROFILING, SNATCHING
PEOPLE THEY SUSPECTED THE
IMMIGRANTS OFF OUR STREETS FROM
SCHOOL PARKING LOTS, HOSPITALS
AND COURTHOUSES.
ORPHANAGES ARE REFUSED TO
IDENTIFY THEMSELVES, USE
EXCESSIVE FORCE AND JUDICIAL
WARRANTS FOR THESE DETENTIONS.
THEY MOVES AROUND RAPIDLY FROM
ONE TO ANOTHER AROUND THE
COUNTRY MAKING IT HARD FOR
LOVED ONES TO KNOW WHERE THEY
ARE AND FOR LAWYERS TO
REPRESENT THE COUNTRY WITHOUT
DUE PROCESS
.
ONE IN SIX RESIDENTS OF AN
ABORIGINAL IMMIGRANT, FRIENDS
AND NEIGHBORS ARE LIVING IN
FEAR AND CONTRARY TO THE
HATEFUL RHETORIC COMING FROM
WASHINGTON, CRIME RATES ARE
MUCH LOWER.
THE IMMIGRANT POPULATION DENHA
MILLION U.S. CITIZENS, FOR
EXAMPLE, ARE AFRAID TO GO TO
WORK TO SCHOOL TO SEEK MEDICAL
ATTENTION OR TO SHOW UP FOR
COURT DATES WHEN PROCLAIMING
ITSELF A WELCOMING COMMUNITY
FOR IMMIGRANTS BUT EXPLICIT
POLICIES TO PROHIBIT THE USE
OF CERTAIN RESOURCES OR
FACILITIES TO FURTHER GENDER,
RACE AND EVERY CITY COUNCIL TO
BAN RACE FROM MUNICIPAL WORKERS
OR FROM CITY PROPERTY FOR ITS
OPERATIONS INCLUDING SCHOOLS,
PARKS, LIBRARIES, CITY
INCLUDING THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
SHOULD BE PROHIBITED FROM
SHARING INFORMATION WITH OR
DETAINING INDIVIDUALS BASED
SOLELY ON THEIR IMMIGRATION
STATUS WITHOUT JUDICIAL.
AND THE CITY OF CHICAGO HAS
DONE THIS THROUGH ITS EXECUTIVE
ORDER NUMBER TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
BY SIX WHICH ALSO COUNTS
RESOURCES TO HUMAN RIGHTS
TRAINING AND OTHER SUPPORT FOR
COMMUNITY AS WELL AS
COOPERATION WITH OTHER
COMMUNITY BUSINESS FAITH
ORGANIZATIONS TO KEEP PEOPLE
SAFE FROM THREATS CAUSED BY
IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT AND
MILITARY DEPLOYMENT.
I SEE EVIDENCE PROACTIVE AND
IMPLEMENT SOME OF THE
PROTECTIVE MEASURES AND
POLICIES OUR AND WILL BE THE
STRONG ENFORCEABLE DISAPPEARED
EVERY DAY IN OUR COMMUNITIES
LIKE THE GERMANS LOOKED THE
OTHER WAY IN THE 1930S AND 40S
UNTIL IT WAS TOO LATE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETER XTINA
.
>> THERE WERE SOME PHRASES
ABOUT WHICH THERE'S A LOT
OF EXCITEMENT THESE DAYS I HEAR
MIXED USE BUT HERE PLACEMAKING
I HEAR SECOND DOWNTOWN AND I
THINK THERE ARE TWO DIFFERENT
APPROACHES TO THOSE THREE GOALS
.
>> ONE AND THERE IS A CONTRAST
TO MY MIND BETWEEN FANTASY AND
REALITY FANTASY TO ME IRBER
S AS YOU CAN SEE FROM THIS
PHOTOGRAPH TAKEN YESTERDAY IT'S
BASICALLY A HUGE PARKING LOT
WITH A COUPLE OF OFFICE
BUILDINGS.
THERE'S NOTHING THERE.
IT WOULD HAVE TO START FROM
SCRATCH.
>> THERE ARE SOME PRETTY
DRAWINGS.
THE BIG BUILDINGS AND ALL SORTS
OF THINGS ON THE DRAWING BOARD
BUT THOSE PRETTY SKETCHES
AREN'T REALITY FOR MANY, MANY
YEARS IF EVER.
>> THE OTHER ONE IS REALITY
THAT REALITY IS THE REIMAGINED
BRIARWOOD.
I HOPE EVERYONE HAS HAD A
CHANCE TO SEE WHAT'S GOING ON
IN BRIARWOOD.
THERE'S THIS HUGE APARTMENT
COMPLEX WITH HUNDREDS OF UNITS
AND RIGHT NEXT TO IT WITHIN A
ONE MINUTE WALK FROM THE
APARTMENT BUILDINGS IS A
EMERGING SUPERMARKET THAT WILL
BE OPEN WITHIN A MATTER
OF MONTHS.
THE STOCK ARCHITECTURAL DRAWING
TO PHOTOGRAPH I TOOK A FEW
WEEKS AGO WITHIN WALKING
DISTANCE SHORT WALKING DISTANCE
SIX RESTAURANTS AT STREET
LEVEL, A STEAKHOUSE, A PIZZA
PARLOR, TWO CHINESE
RESTAURANTS, A MEXICAN
RESTAURANT AND A MEDITERRANEAN
RESTAURANT WITHIN THE BRIBER
BRIARWOOD SITE ITSELF THERE IS
ROOM FOR MORE HOUSING AND ALSO
A ROOM WITHIN THE MALL FOR MORE
EVOLUTION IN THE KINDS
OF SERVICES AND GOODS THAT ARE
BEING OFFERED THAT MIGHT BE
MORE APPROPRIATE TO THE GROWING
NUMBER OF APARTMENT DWELLERS ON
THE SITE.
THERE ARE MEDICAL AND FINANCIAL
SERVICES WITHIN WALKING
DISTANCE WITHOUT EVEN HAVING TO
CROSS ANY BUSY STREET.
THE FANTASY PROJECT AABA S
REQUIRES MASSIVE SUBSIDIZATION
AS I CAN BEST I CAN TELL NO TAX
REVENUE TO THE CITY, THE
COUNTY, THE SCHOOLS, THE EIGHTY
FOR THIRTY YEARS AND THEN TO
BUILD THOSE PARKING STRUCTURES
AS MUCH AS A QUARTER BILLION
BILLION NOT A MILLION A QUARTER
BILLION DOLLARS WOULD BE PUT AT
RISK WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
REALITY OF OUR FIREWOOD THERE
IS LITTLE OR NO SUBSIDIZATION
GOING ON.
I HAVEN'T FOUND ANY TIFFANY
BROWNFIELD RELIEF ANY SPECIAL
ASSESSMENT INSTEAD THERE WILL
BE A MAYBE IMMEDIATE TAX
REVENUES TO THE CITY, THE
SCHOOLS, THE COUNTY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER, CHRISTINA
MONTAGUE
, CHRISTINA MONTAGUE,
YOU APPEAR UNTIL OUR SIXTH TO
RAISE YOUR HAND.
OH,
I DON'T SEE THIS CARON'S
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CHUCK RHEEM
.
GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU FOR LETTING ME SPEAK
TONIGHT I'M RUNNING FOR CITY
COUNCIL IN THE THIRD WARD NEXT
YEAR AND THE MAIN REASON I'M
HERE AND THE MAIN REASON I'M
DOING THAT IS TO ENCOURAGE
OTHER PEOPLE IN THE CITY TO RUN
FOR CITY COUNCIL ALSO SO THAT
WE CAN DEFEAT THE EXCESS IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AND
TAKE OUR CITY BACK.
OUR CITY FACES A SERIOUS THREAT
FROM THE NEW COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN.
I SUPPORT THE MAYOR'S GOALS
OF FLEXIBILITY AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING BUT THIS PLAN WON'T
ACHIEVE THEM.
>> WE ALL REALLY KNOW THAT
INSTEAD OF AFFORDABILITY IT
WILL BRING GENTRIFICATION,
HIGHER PRICES AND MUCH HIGHER
TAXES IN OUR POPULATION IS
STAGNANT.
IT SAYS THAT IN THE REPORT.
YET CITY COUNCIL PROPOSES TO
MORE THAN DOUBLE OUR HOUSING
UNITS.
AND WHAT ABOUT THE TREES
REDUCING SETBACKS ON
RESIDENTIAL FLATS WILL MAKE
LAND MORE VALUABLE TO
DEVELOPERS RESULTING IN THE
LOSS OF TREES, HOMES AND
NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER.
>> THIS WILL BE THE BULLDOZER
MAGNET WHEN WE REDUCE SETBACKS,
TAXES WILL RISE SHARPLY TO FUND
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT BENEFITS
DEVELOPERS AND FUTURE RESIDENTS
WITH NO BENEFIT FOR CURRENT
RESIDENTS.
WE NEED A BALANCED PLAN THAT
WELCOMES GROWTH WITHOUT
DESTROYING WHAT MAKES TREE CITY
SPECIAL.
WHAT IS BULLDOZED CANNOT BE
RESTORED WITH YOUR HELP IN
TWENTY TWENTY SIX WE CAN
PROTECT OUR COMMUNITY AND TAKE
OUR CITY BACK AND I'VE PUT A
LOT OF MONEY INTO ORGANIZING
THIS WEB SITE.
CHOUKRI SAVE TREE CITY CHOUKRI
AND SAVE TREE CITY DOT COM AND
IF YOU GO THERE YOU WILL GET
THE INFORMATION THAT YOU NEED
TO MAKE A REALLY THOROUGH
ANALYSIS.
EVERY MAJOR ANALYSIS OF THIS
CLUB IS THERE ON THIS WEB SITE
.
PLEASE CHECK IT OUT IF YOU DO
THERE'S NO WAY THAT YOU WILL
CONTINUE TO BELIEVE IN THIS
PLAN AND YOU WILL DEMAND A
POSITIVE PLAN AND A REVISION
OF THE PLAN THAT TAKES THE
HEALTH OF TREES AND THE
CHARACTER OF OUR CITY INTO
ACCOUNT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT BEAUTY IS KARMA BAILEY
.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
I'M A LIFELONG RESIDENT OF ANN
ARBOR.
I ATTENDED ANN ARBOR PUBLIC
SCHOOLS AND I RECENTLY
GRADUATED IN THE CLASS
OF TWENTY TWENTY FIVE ALL
THROUGHOUT MY YOUTH I WAS
HEAVILY INVOLVED IN ACADEMICS
AND ATHLETICS THAT INCLUDES
BASKETBALL, SYNCHRONIZED
SWIMMING, REGULAR SWIMMING
LACROSSE TRACK FIELD, YOU NAME
IT.
BUT EVEN WITH PLAYING ALL THESE
SPORTS, THE ONE THAT I
CONNECTED WITH THE MOST WAS
FIELD HOCKEY.
I FELL IN LOVE WITH THE SPORT
AFTER STARTING MY FIRST
PRACTICE IN NINTH GRADE AFTER
MANY, MANY HARD SEASONS OF HARD
WORK I ENDED UP BEING RANKED
NUMBER ONE GOALIE IN MICHIGAN
DURING MY SENIOR SEASON AND
THIS HONOR WAS IN THREE
CATEGORIES.
I CREATED SO MANY LIFELONG
CONNECTIONS WITH PLAYERS AND
COACHES BUT EVEN THOUGH I HAD
SO MUCH LOVE FOR MY TEAM, I
NOTICED A LACK
OF REPRESENTATION FOR
MARGINALIZED GROUPS WITHIN OUR
PROGRAM.
SO THIS IS THIS PROBLEM BECAME
A PASSION FOR ME TO TARGET AND
CHANGE CARMAKERS IS A NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION I FOUNDED AND
UNDER MY ORGANIZATION OUR
CREATE A FREE FIELD HOCKEY
CLINIC THAT'S TAKING PLACE IN
ANN ARBOR.
MY MISSION IS TO TARGET KIDS
FROM THE AGES FIVE TO 17 WITHIN
UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS TO BE
INVOLVED IN MORE PREDOMINANTLY
WHITE SPORTS INCLUDING FIELD
HOCKEY FROM THE SIXTH GRADE TO
TWELFTH GRADE ON HONOR ROLL IN
HIGH SCHOOL I WAS HONORED IN
THE ANNUAL FREEDOM FUNDS GALA
DINNER FOR BLACK AND BROWN
STUDENTS FROM TEN TO TWELVE
GRADE STUDENTS I MAINTAIN A 3.0
OR HIGHER GPA WE'RE ABLE TO
ATTEND BECOMING A LAWYER OR A
FAMILY COURT ATTORNEY HAS
ALWAYS BEEN MY DREAM AND
BECAUSE OF THIS I CHOSE TO
ATTEND CENTRAL MICHIGAN
UNIVERSITY DURING MY FALSIES
MY
FULL YEAR TO STUDY SOCIOLOGY
WITH THE CONCENTRATION
OF SOCIAL AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE.
EVEN WITH ALL THESE
ACCOMPLISHED WITH MANY MORE TO
CERTAINLY COME I WILL NEVER GET
OVER THE OVERWHELMING FEELING
OF THOSE ONLY JUDGING MY
CHARACTER BASED ON THE
ASSUMPTION THEY HAVE ALREADY
MADE.
BEING A BLACK WOMAN MEANS BEING
STEREOTYPED DUE TO FALSE
INFORMATION SPREAD ABOUT YOUR
COMMUNITY AND BEING A BLACK
GIRL SOLELY RAISED BY HER
FATHER MEANS SEEING HIM PULLED
OVER COUNTLESS TIMES DUE TO A
PRECONCEIVED BIAS.
HIS SKIN COLOR SEEING MY DAD IN
THE BACK OF A COP CAR MAKES ME
QUESTION THE TRUE MORALITY
OF THE ANN ARBOR POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND A LITTLE GIRL
DESERVED BETTER TO SEE HER
FATHER IN HANDCUFFS.
THIS IS WHY MY MESSAGE TO YOU
ALL TODAY IS SUPER IMPORTANT.
I WANT OUR POLICE OFFICERS TO
CARRY OUT THEIR DUTY WITH
HONOR.
SO MY CHALLENGE FOR THE APD IS
TO ESTABLISH A BETTER POLICY
FOR THE OVERPOLICING OF BLACK
RESIDENTS IN ANN ARBOR AND
MAYBE THEN ONE LESS BLACK GIRL
WILL SEE HER FATHER IN THE BACK
OF THE CAR.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TEACHER
MONTEGUT.
GOOD EVENING, MR. MAYOR.
CITY COUNCIL AND MR.
ADMINISTRATOR.
MY NAME IS TEACHER MONTAGUE AND
I AM PROUD TO BE A PART OF THE
TEAM THAT HOLDS THE ANN ARBOR
AFRICAN-AMERICAN FESTIVAL AN
ANNUAL CELEBRATION THAT TAKES
PART ON THE FIRST WEEKEND IN
JUNE AT THE CORNER OF EAST END
AND NORTH FOURTH AVENUE.
THIS FESTIVAL WHICH WAS FOUNDED
BY THE VISIONARY LUCILLE HALL
PORTER IN NINETEEN NINETY SIX
IS A TIME HONORED TRADITION
THAT BRINGS OUR COMMUNITY
TOGETHER TO COMMEMORATE THE
RICH HISTORY
OF AFRICAN-AMERICANS IN ANN
ARBOR FROM THE NINETEEN
THIRTIES TO THE NINETEEN
SEVENTIES AND ST. WAS A
THRIVING HUB OF BLACK OWNED
BUSINESSES AND OUR FESTIVAL
SERVES AS A REMINDER OF THE
VIBRANT CULTURE CULTURAL
HERITAGE THAT ONCE FLOURISHED
IN THIS AREA.
AS A COORDINATOR I DEEPLY
CONCERNED THAT WE ARE BEING
FORCED TO RELOCATE DUE TO
CONSTRUCTION PLANS OR POSSIBLY
IN LIEU OF ANOTHER COMMUNITY
EVENT THAT BEGAN JUST LAST YEAR
.
I AM URGENTLY REQUESTING THAT
THE CONSTRUCTION BE POSTPONED
UNTIL AFTER JUNE THE 6TH.
TWENTY TWENTY SIX ARE NEARLY
THIRTY YEAR OLD EVENT AS MOVING
TO A DIFFERENT LOCATION WOULD
UNDERMINE THE SIGNIFICANCE
OF PAYING TRIBUTE TO OUR
TRAILBLAZING ANCESTORS AND THE
VERY REASON WHY MRS. PORTER
CHOSE THIS HISTORIC BLACK
BUSINESS DISTRICT LOCATION IF
POSTPONEMENT IS NOT POSSIBLE I
AM ASKING THE COUNCIL TO
CONSIDER PROVIDING AN
ALTERNATIVE DATE IN JULY OR
AUGUST ONCE THE CONSTRUCTION IS
COMPLETE SO THAT WE CAN
CONTRIBUTE CONTINUE TO
CELEBRATE OUR HERITAGE IN THE
SAME LOCATION WITH THE SAME
PASSION AND DEDICATION THAT HAS
DEFINED OUR FESTIVAL FOR
DECADES.
THANK YOU TO THE NAACP, MY CLUB
SISTERS AND BESTIVAL FAMILY FOR
STANDING WITH ME THIS EVENING
AND THANK YOU ALL FOR LISTENING
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS T.J. BAILEY
.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS T.J. BAILEY.
I GREW RIGHT HERE IN ANN ARBOR
AND THIS CITY HAS SHAPED THE
PERSON I AM TODAY.
I WAS RAISED IN A BIG FAMILY AS
THE OLDEST OF TEN CHILDREN
WHICH MEANT I LEARNED
RESPONSIBILITY EARLY.
I'VE ALWAYS HAD ABOUT SCHOOL
SPORTS WORK AND FAMILY AND THAT
HAS TAUGHT ME DISCIPLINE,
LEADERSHIP AND THE IMPORTANCE
OF SHOWING FOR OTHERS.
I'M A SECOND YEAR STUDENT AT
MONASH UNIVERSITY DOUBLE
MAJORING IN MARKETING AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP.
I CURRENTLY HOLD A THREE POINT
FIVE OVERALL GPA.
I HAVE EARNED A SPOT ON THE
DEAN'S LIST AND I'M ON PACE TO
GRADUATE A YEAR EARLY WITH TWO
DEGREES ALONGSIDE MY ACADEMICS
I'VE STARTED TWO BUSINESSES.
THE FIRST WAS A CLOTHING BRAND
CALLED STAR WHICH I BUILT AND
CLOTHES WHILE STILL IN HIGH
SCHOOL TODAY I OWN AND OPERATE
OPTIMUM PERFORMANCE FITNESS AND
FASHION BASED CLOTHING BRAND
WITH THIS BUSINESS NINE PERCENT
OF ALL EARNINGS GO TOWARDS
FUNDS CHARITIES, DONATIONS AND
CAUSES.
I TRULY BELIEVE BUSINESS SHOULD
HELP PEOPLE AND NOT JUST MAKE
MONEY.
GIVING BACK IS ALWAYS A MATTER
TO ME.
I MENTOR YOUNGER ATHLETES, TRY
TO BE A POSITIVE ROLE MODEL IN
MY COMMUNITY AND CARRY MYSELF
IN A WAY THAT REFLECTS
RESPONSIBILITY AND PURPOSE.
I UNDERSTAND THAT PEOPLE ARE
ALWAYS WATCHING ESPECIALLY
YOUNG KIDS WHO ARE TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHO THEY WANT TO
BECOME.
BUT THERE'S ANOTHER SIDE OF MY
STORY THAT CAN'T BE IGNORED.
GROWING UP I WATCHED MY FATHER
BE STOPPED AND HARASSED BY
POLICE MORE THAN I CAN COUNT
SEEING HOW THE CHILD INSTILL
FEAR IN ME AND THAT'S A FEAR
SHARED BY MANY BLACK MEN AND
FAMILIES.
THOSE EXPERIENCES DON'T
DISAPPEAR WITH AGE SUCCESS OR
EDUCATION.
EVEN NOW, DESPITE MY GRADES, MY
BUSINESSES AND THE LIFE I'M
BUILDING, I STILL FACE MOMENTS
WHERE MY APPEARANCES SPEAK
LOUDER THAN MY CHARACTER
CREDENTIALS.
MY LABEL OTHERS AS A GOOD
PERSON DON'T ALWAYS PROTECT ME
FROM JUDGMENT BUT I REFUSE TO
LET THAT DEFINE ME.
I KEEP PUSHING FORWARD BUILDING
AND LEADING WITH INTEGRITY.
MY GOAL IS TO CREATE
OPPORTUNITY, BREAK STEREOTYPES
AND SHOW THAT WE ARE MORE THAN
WHAT PEOPLE ASSUME WHEN I FIRST
SEE US.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MARIANNE
CARONE
.
>> WHO IS IT?
MARY AMPARA
.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
YOU WILL HEAR FROM OTHERS
TONIGHT AND I THOUGHT I'D BE
GOING AFTER THEM SO TRY TO TAKE
THAT INTO ACCOUNT.
WE HAVE HEARD FROM RICH DOLLARS
ALREADY AND I'D LIKE TO ECHO
WHAT HE HAS SAID AND WHAT
OTHERS WILL SAY SO WELL ABOUT
HOW TO MAKE OUR CITY AS
WELCOMING AND PROTECTING OF OUR
IMMIGRANT NEIGHBORS AS
POSSIBLE, ESPECIALLY GIVEN OUR
CRUEL AND UNUSUAL AND EVEN
ILLEGAL FEDERAL ENFORCEMENT
POLICIES AGAINST VERY
VULNERABLE PEOPLE.
I WANT TO CALL OURSELVES AND
ALL OF YOU OUR GOVERNOR
GOVERNING OFFICIALS TO BE OUR
BEST SELVES AND DO THE RIGHT
THINGS TO RESIST THE EVIL
OF THOSE WHO COME FOR THE
IMMIGRANTS IN OUR COMMUNITY.
I ASK MYSELF I ASK ALL OF US
AND I ASK IN PARTICULAR CITY
COUNCIL TONIGHT AND THE MAYOR
WHO DO WE STAND WITH IF WE
STAND AS WE SAY WE DO WITH
FAIRNESS, KINDNESS, LEGALITY
AND COMPASSION, WE WILL DO ALL
IN OUR POWER TO SET AND ENACT
POLICIES TO SAY NO, NOT IN OUR
CITY TO ICE SAYING NO TO ICE
NOT IN OUR CITY.
THERE ARE THREE WAYS THAT WE'RE
PROPOSING TONIGHT AND THE FIRST
ONE MOST IMMEDIATE ONE WE CAN
SAY NO, YOU CAN MAKE THIS
HAPPEN AND WE'LL HELP YOU NO TO
ICE IN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS FOR
ANY REASON THAT FACILITATES
THEIR CAPTURING, DETAINING AND
DEPORTING OUR COMMUNITY MEMBERS
.
THERE'S NO REASON FOR US TO
HELP THEM EVEN IF SOMEONE HAS
TO GO TO THE BATHROOM.
WE ALSO URGE YOU TO ADOPT A NO
MASKS AND LAW ENFORCEMENT IN
OUR CITY.
ALL OFFICERS, WHOEVER THEY ARE
SHOULD SHOW THEIR FACES AND
THEIR IDENTIFY BADGE NUMBERS AS
OTHER CITIES HAVE DONE.
WE JUST HEARD ABOUT CHICAGO SO
WE KNOW IT'S POSSIBLE.
LET'S ENFORCE OUR OWN LAWS
AGAINST ANY ILLEGAL ACTIONS
OF ICE IN OUR COMMUNITIES
INCLUDING DISAPPEARING AND OR
ARRESTING PEOPLE WITHOUT A
WARRANT NOT FOLLOWING DUE
PROCESS AND THROWING PEOPLE TO
THE GROUND, BEATING THEM UP OR
OTHERWISE INJURING THEM.
LET OUR POLICE OFFICERS TELL
ICE TO GO AWAY IN THESE
INSTANCES AND ARREST THEM IF
THEY DON'T WE HAVE WITNESSED
THEIR BRUTALITY HERE IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> ALL OF THOSE THINGS THAT I
SAID HAVE HAPPENED ALREADY.
>> SO WHERE IS AN ARBOR STAND?
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LAURA
SANTER'S
NOW LIVING AND SERVING
AS A TRUSTEE IN DEXTER
TOWNSHIP.
I LIVED IN ANN ARBOR FOR THIRTY
FOUR YEARS AND WORKED FOR U
OF M SCHOOL OF SOCIAL WORK.
I'M SPEAKING FOR MIRA MOVEMENT
FOR IMMIGRANT RIGHTS ACTION, A
GRASSROOTS ORGANIZATION.
MANY OF US HAVE TWENTY YEARS
OF EXPERIENCE ADVOCATING FOR
POLICY THAT PROTECTS OUR
IMMIGRANT COMMUNITY FROM
INCREASED AND INHUMANE
IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT.
WE APPRECIATE THE CITY'S
PROTECTIVE STANCE IN SUPPORT
OF ALL IMMIGRANT RESIDENTS.
ICE HAS BEEN IN OUR COMMUNITY
EVERY DAY MAKING UNLAWFUL
ARRESTS.
>> THEY HAVE NEVER PRESENTED A
LEGAL WARRANT READ ANYONE THEIR
RIGHTS WERE HONORED DUE PROCESS
DESPITE POLICY
THAT DISSUADES
CITY AND COUNTY COOPERATION
WITH ICE, NUMEROUS SYSTEMS ARE
COMPLICIT IN THESE INHUMANE AND
UNLAWFUL ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES
THAT ARE DISAPPEARING.
OUR IMMIGRANT COMMUNITY MEMBERS
ON TUESDAY NOVEMBER 18TH AT
ABOUT THREE O'CLOCK MIRROR
RECEIVED A VIDEO OF TWO
IMMIGRATION AGENTS ESCORTING A
SMALL BLACK WOMAN OUT OF THE
ANN ARBOR POLICE DEPARTMENT AT
CITY HALL.
>> WE IMMEDIATELY CONTACTED
CHIEF ANDERSON WHO WAS
RESPONSIVE.
HE QUICKLY INVESTIGATED
INFORMED US THAT ICE USED THE
ANN ARBOR POLICE DEPARTMENT TO
ALLOW THE TARGETED WOMAN TO GO
TO THE BATHROOM THIS HAS
CONFUSED THE COMMUNITY AND
BROKEN TRUST.
IN FACT, SOME COMMUNITY MEMBERS
DON'T EVEN BELIEVE THIS
EXPLANATION.
AS FAR AS WE KNOW, THE ANN
ARBOR POLICE DID NOT INQUIRE
ABOUT THE LAWFULNESS OF THIS
ARREST OR TRY TO STOP IN ANY
WAY.
INSTEAD THEY COMPLIED WITH ICE
TO OFFER BATHROOM SERVICES WE
CAN NOT STATE TO ICE.
WE DON'T WANT YOU HERE.
WE WON'T COOPERATE WITH YOU BUT
COME AND USE OUR TOILET.
THE CITY HALL HOUSES MANY
SERVICES AND ICE ACTIVITY COULD
HAPPEN IN ANY OF THE MUNICIPAL
BUILDINGS.
SO FAR THERE ARE NUMEROUS
EXAMPLES OF LOCAL POLICE,
HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS AND
BUSINESSES LACKING PROACTIVE
POLICIES TO RESIST UNLAWFUL
IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT.
IN MANY WAYS WE ARE UTTERLY
UNPREPARED FOR THIS ATTACK ON
OUR IMMIGRANT COMMUNITY AND
LACK A COORDINATED RESPONSE.
>> WE ASKED THE MAYOR OF ANN
ARBOR AND THE CITY COUNCIL TO
JOIN COLLABORATIVE EFFORTS TO
EXPAND YOUR POLICIES TO
PROHIBIT ICE FROM ENTERING ANY
MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS OR USING
ANY OF OUR LOCAL RESOURCES TO
CARRY OUT THEIR BRUTAL,
UNLAWFUL AND INHUMANE
ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES.
>> THIS HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED
IN CHICAGO BY MAYOR BRANDON
JOHNSON AND COOK COUNTY
AUTHORITIES WHO HAVE DEEMED
MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS ICE FREE
ZONES.
SO WE KNOW IT CAN BE DONE AND
WE HOPE THAT YOU WILL DO IT
HERE AND WE WILL BE IN TOUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETER HIGH
COUNCIL MEMBERS ADMINISTRATOR
TONY, THANKS FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK TO YOU
TONIGHT.
PETER, HOW ABOUT THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION?
BUT TONIGHT I'M SPEAKING ONLY
FOR MYSELF WINTER SNOW REMOVAL
ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS IS
A IS AN EVERY YEAR ISSUE FOR ME
AND I THINK FOR ALL OF US.
>> BUT I'M HERE TONIGHT BECAUSE
THE TWO STORMS WE'VE HAD IN
DECEMBER HAVE LEFT SIDEWALKS
AND CROSSWALKS ALONG CYO CHURCH
IN VERY BAD CONDITION WALKING
FROM CHURCHILL TO SEVENTH
STREET SHOULDN'T GENERATE 10 C
CLICK FIX TICKETS.
BUT ON SATURDAY THAT'S WHAT
HAPPENED WHEN I DID IT THREE
THOSE TEN WERE FOR SNOW ON
CROSSWALK APPROACH RAMPS THAT
SHOULD HAVE BEEN CLEARED BY
PROPERTY OWNERS THE OTHER
SEVEN, HOWEVER, ARE PLACES THAT
SHOULD BE CLEARED BY THE CITY.
THOSE WERE TWO REFUGE ISLANDS
WITHIN ZION CHURCH FOR APPROACH
RAMPS THAT WERE BLOCKED BY
WINDOWS IN THE STREET LEFT BY
SNOW PLOWS AND ONE 600 FOOT
LENGTH OF SIDEWALK ADJACENT TO
THE AAPS GREENVIEW NATURE AREA
THAT IS CLEARLY MARKED AS THE
CITY'S RESPONSIBILITY ON THEIR
MAP OF SIDEWALKS SNOW REMOVAL
THAT ONE APPEARS NOT TO HAVE
BEEN TOUCHED AT ALL THIS WHOLE
WINTER SEASON.
SO FOUR DAYS AFTER THE LAST
SNOW THESE AREAS ARE STILL NOT
CLEARED.
IT WAS CHALLENGING FOR ME TO
GET THROUGH THIS MESS THIS PAST
WEEKEND.
IT WOULD BE VERY DIFFICULT FOR
ANYONE WITH ANY MOBILITY ISSUES
AND WHEELCHAIR USERS NO CHANCE
AT THIS COLD THAT WE'RE HAVING
NOW MEANS IT'S GOING TO BE VERY
DIFFICULT TO CLEAR THOSE PLACES
UNTIL THE FALL LATER ON THIS
WEEK.
SO ADMINISTRATOR TONY, DO YOU
HAVE WHAT YOU NEED IN ORDER TO
BE SUCCESSFUL AT THAT SIDEWALK
AND CROSSWALK SNOW REMOVAL IF
YOU DON'T THESE ARE THE PEOPLE
THAT YOU NEED TO ASK FOR FOR
SOMETHING MORE OR SOMETHING
DIFFERENT.
WHAT I SAW BEFORE THE THE
HIGHER THE TEMPERATURE DROPPED
WAS THAT THE CREWS WERE OUT
THERE WERE REALLY HUSTLING BUT
IT WASN'T ENOUGH APPARENTLY TO
TO GET EVERYTHING DONE.
SO MY USER EXPERIENCE THIS THIS
WEEKEND REALLY INDICATES THAT
YOU DON'T HAVE WHAT YOU NEED
AND THAT YOU'RE MISSING
SOMETHING.
AND WHAT'S PARTICULARLY
DISAPPOINTING IS THAT SOME
OF THESE LOCATIONS FOR WHICH I
SUBMITTED TICKETS AFTER THE
FIRST STORM OF THIS YEAR WERE
EITHER CLEARED AFTER MY TICKET
WAS SUBMITTED AND THEN NOT
CLEARED AFTER THE SECOND STORM
OR ELSE THEY'VE NEVER BEEN
CLEARED AT ALL A SINGLE TIME
THIS YEAR.
AND ALL OF THESE SPOTS THAT I'M
TALKING ABOUT OUR CITY
RESPONSIBILITY.
>> SO THAT'S THE END OF MY
STATEMENT TO YOU GUYS.
THIS NEXT PART IS DIRECTED AT
PEOPLE HERE IN THE ROOM AND
LISTENING AT HOME.
I'M SURE THAT THIS UPCOMING
THOUGHT I'M HOPING THAT IT
FIXES MOST OF THIS BUT I'M
GOING TO BE AT THE CORNER
OF CYO CHURCH AND GREENVIEW ON
SATURDAY AT 2:00 P.M. BECAUSE I
THINK THE ONLY WAY I'M GOING TO
GET THIS FIXED SO I DON'T HAVE
TO WALK IN IT ANYMORE IS TO DO
IT MYSELF.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME TO JOIN ME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD.
GOOD.
GOOD EVENING.
I WENT TO SAN FRANCISCO LAST
WEEK AND I COME BACK EXTREMELY
HOPEFUL FOR HOW THINGS CAN BE
DONE AND HOW WE CAN REDUCE THE
PEDESTRIAN CRASH RATE
ESPECIALLY FOR FATALITIES.
ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT I WENT TO AN
OPEN HOUSE SIMILAR TO THE OPEN
HOUSE THAT WAS BEING HELD IN
ANN ARBOR EXCEPT THE OPEN HOUSE
IN SAN FRANCISCO WAS STAFFED BY
ABOUT A DOZEN PROFESSIONALS WHO
WERE ENGINEERS AND URBAN
PLANNERS WHO WANTED TO TALK
ABOUT PROCESSES AND SOLUTIONS.
IT WAS REALLY WONDERFUL AND ONE
OF THE ENGINEERS MENTIONED THAT
THE MAYOR THE MAYOR OF SAN
FRANCISCO, A CITY SEVEN TIMES
THE SIZE OF ANN ARBOR AND I
KNOW WE HAVE A WEAK MAYOR FORM
OF GOVERNMENT BUT CAN YOU
IMAGINE A CITY SEVEN TIMES THE
SIZE OF ANN ARBOR WHERE THE
MAYOR TRULY CARED ABOUT
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY AND I WAS
TOLD ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT THAT
THE MAYOR WAS CONCERNED ABOUT
THE CRASH RATE AND ABOUT
EXPECTATIONS FOR VISION ZERO
AND HE WOULD BE ISSUING A
DIRECTIVE TODAY AND I HAVE THAT
DIRECTIVE HERE AND I JUST WANT
TO READ A COUPLE OF STATEMENTS
ABOUT IT.
IT'S CALLED THE SAFE STREETS
INITIATIVE FROM DAY ONE I'VE
SAID MY TOP PRIORITY IS PUBLIC
SAFETY AND THAT MEANS ALL KINDS
OF SAFETY NO MATTER HOW YOU GET
AROUND THE CITY WALKING,
BIKING, DRIVING OR RIDING
TRANSIT, YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO
DO SO WITHOUT FEAR FOR YOUR
LIFE AND THEN HE GOES ON AND ON
IF WE WANT SAN FRANCISCO TO BE
A PLACE WHERE FAMILIES CAN
BUILD THEIR LIVES FROM RAISING
YOUNG CHILDREN TO AGING WITH
DIGNITY, SAFE STREETS HAVE TO
BE A CITYWIDE PRIORITY.
THIS IS EXTREMELY IMPORTANT
BECAUSE IT IS THE MAYOR WHO'S
TAKING THE LEAD ON THIS.
IT IS NOT PEOPLE IN THE
COMMUNITY EVEN THOUGH PETER
HOKE IS DOING AN EXCELLENT JOB
AND MANY OTHERS IT IS NOT OUR
RESPONSIBILITY AND SOMETIMES I
THINK MAYBE WE NEED TO MAYORS
AND TO COUNCILS ONE THAT CAN DO
WHATEVER YOU GUYS ARE DOING
WITH ALL OF YOUR PROJECTS AND
YOUR AAA RATINGS AND YOUR
AWARDS THAT YOU'RE WINNING AND
A SECOND ONE THAT JUST DOES
BASIC SERVICES QUIETLY
DELIVERING SAFE SIDEWALKS, SAFE
STREETS ON A REGULAR BASIS.
SO I WANT TO IN HERE WITH THE
FACT THAT THE MAYOR'S OFFICE IS
GOING TO CREATE SAFE STREETS
INITIATIVE WORKING GROUP SO
HE'S NOT JUST GOING TO TALK
ABOUT IT AND HE'S GOT THE 100
DAY PLAN.
HE'S GOT THE SIX MONTH PLAN AND
I AM CONVINCED THAT THINGS ARE
GOING TO GET DONE AND SAN
FRANCISCO IS GOING TO BE A
BETTER PLACE ALSO YOU HAVEN'T
EVEN SEEN YOUR TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR CRASH DATA YET.
THE MAYOR HAS SEEN THE DECEMBER
2ND CRASH.
IT'S ALREADY ON THEIR WEBSITE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT FEATURES BUNDAMBA
SOCIETY HAS TOLD ME THAT IF YOU
GET A DEGREE IF I STAY OUT
OF TROUBLE, IF I GET A JOB AND
PAY MY BILLS THAT I WILL BE
TREATED BETTER, THAT I WILL
EXCEL AND BE RESPECTED AS A
CONTRIBUTOR TO SOCIETY.
I HAVE DONE ALL OF THAT AND I'M
STILL GETTING TARGETED.
I'M STILL GETTING PROFILED.
SO WHAT IS A PERSON TO DO THAT
STUFF CAN CARRY THROUGH THE
REST OF THEIR LIVES?
QUESTION HOW MANY YOU EVER SEE
ANY EVICTION NOTICE OR HAD YOUR
LIGHTS AND YOUR GAS
DISCONNECTED AND HAD TO SLEEP
IN THE CAR WITH YOUR CHILDREN
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE WINTER NOT
BECAUSE YOU CAN'T AFFORD IT BUT
BECAUSE THE POLICE CONTINUE TO
STOP YOU STOP YOU STOP YOU STOP
YOU AND OVERCHARGE YOU WITH
TRAFFIC CRIMES FORCING YOU TO
SPEND EVERY DOLLAR THAT YOU ARE
TO STAY FREE AND BE PRESENT AS
A FIVE KIND OF CRAZY RIGHT?
SO I KIND OF ANN ARBOR AS A
TEAM SO IMAGINE COMING TO ONE
OF AMERICA'S MOST AFFLUENT
BEAUTIFUL, DIVERSE, INNOVATIVE,
PROGRESSIVE AND SAFEST CITIES
AS AN 18 YEAR OLD COLLEGE
STUDENT WITH BIG DREAMS
IMMEDIATELY BECOMING A TARGET
UNDER ATTACK BY POLICE IN THEIR
POLICIES AND HAVE BEEN FOR OVER
TWENTY YEARS STRAIGHT MY ENTIRE
LIFE HAS BEEN TURNED UPSIDE
DOWN EDUCATION CAREER BUSINESS
IS DERAILED BECAUSE I'M BLACK
AND I THINK I'M NOT SUPPOSED TO
BE HERE AND I'VE BEEN A LAW
ABIDING TAXPAYING CITIZEN FOR
THE ENTIRE TIME.
I UNDERSTAND THE EFFORTS
AUDIENCE AND ATTORNEYS ARE IN
PLACE TODAY WHICH IS GREAT BUT
WHAT ABOUT THOSE THAT HAVE
SUFFERED AND LIVED IS NIGHTMARE
OF INJUSTICE AND HAD THEIR
LIVES TAKEN AWAY FROM WHERE
PEOPLE NEED TO UNDERSTAND IS
THERE WAS AN IMMENSE AMOUNT
OF HARM THAT OCCURRED RIGHT
HERE IN THIS BEAUTIFUL TOWN AND
THE CITY THAT WE LOVE PEOPLE
NEED TO UNDERSTAND IS THERE A
BLACK MAN RIGHT NOW THAT DO NOT
WANT TO TRAVEL THROUGH THE CITY
THAT OTHER PEOPLE NEED TO
UNDERSTAND IS THERE ARE BLACK
MEN AND WHOLE FAMILIES THAT
LEFT THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR TO
HAVE A GOOD DAY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS THOSE SOME
GASIFIER
.
DR. SARABIA IS FINE.
HE IS NOT HERE TONIGHT AND OUR
NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE COLEMAN.
>> YEAH, YOU DID A DECENT JOB
OF PRONOUNCING IN ITS SUBURBS
FANI.
>> I DON'T WANT I DON'T WANT
ANYONE WATCHING TONIGHT TO
THINK THAT IT'S HOPELESS TO GET
PALESTINIAN LIBERATION.
IT'S NOT IT TOOK UNTIL JUST
THIS THING IT TOOK UNTIL
NINETEEN SIXTY THREE FOR THIS
CITY COUNCIL TO FINALLY BE
FORCED INTO OH I SEE DARMA
BACHMANN IS RUNNING AWAY FROM
THE ROOM IT TOOK UNTIL NINETEEN
SIXTY THREE FOR THE ANN ARBOR
CITY COUNCIL TO FINALLY APPROVE
A FAIR HOUSING LAW IT TOOK
UNTIL THE LATE 1980S FOR THE
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL TO
FINALLY BE FORCED INTO
APPROVING A BOYCOTT
OF APARTHEID SOUTH AFRICA.
SO THESE THINGS THAT YOU MIGHT
THINK ARE IMPOSSIBLE CAN HAPPEN
IF YOU KEEP PUSHING.
SO I DON'T WANT ANYONE TO THINK
THAT THIS GENOCIDAL STATE
OF ISRAEL IS GOING TO BE AROUND
FOREVER.
>> APARTHEID SOUTH AFRICA
PROVED THAT VIOLENTLY RACIST
GENOCIDAL STATES DO NOT LAST
LONG NOT ANYMORE.
>> IN FACT, LAST MONTH THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CENTRAL
STUDENT GOVERNMENT APPROVED A
DIVESTMENT RESOLUTION AGAINST
ISRAEL BECAUSE EXPLICITLY
BECAUSE OF THE GENOCIDE THAT
ISRAEL IS COMMITTING ON THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE, NOTABLY IN
GAZA.
SOMETIME LATER THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN CENTRAL STUDENT
GOVERNMENT PRESIDENT DECIDED TO
VETO THAT DIVESTMENT RESOLUTION
BUT HE IS NOT ABLE TO VETO AWAY
THE ACTUAL FACT THAT ISRAEL IS
COMMITTING A GENOCIDE AGAINST
THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE WITH
YOUR TAX DOLLARS AND IN THE
CASE WAS A CITY COUNCIL HERE
WITH YOUR POLITICAL SUPPORT,
IT'S A SHAMEFUL THING YOU GOT
TO STOP IT.
YOU OUGHT TO APPROVE THE
RESOLUTION THAT SAYS SIMPLY SEE
WE ARE IT SAYS WE ARE AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
WE HAVE BEEN ASKING FOR SUCH A
RESOLUTION FOR OVER TWENTY
YEARS IN THE ANN CITY COUNCIL
IN THIS ROOM IT'S TIME THAT YOU
APPROVE THAT RESOLUTION AND
STOPPED BEING SO OBVIOUSLY
COMPLICIT IN ITS GENOCIDE
AGAINST THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
.
WE DON'T KNOW HOW MANY HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS OF PALESTINIANS
HAVE BEEN KILLED IN GAZA BY
ISRAEL.
THANK YOU FOR THEIR
COMMUNICATIONS COUNCIL
KATHRYN
HARRISON.
THANK YOU, MEIR.
FIRST I WOULD LIKE TO THANK THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
IT CAME UP FOR COMING THIS
EVENING TO SPEAK AND REQUEST
THAT THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
DOWNTOWN FIRST OF ALL NOT BE
DISPLACED NEXT YEAR.
>> AND I AM HAPPY TO ANNOUNCE
THAT THE NUMBER
OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN DOWNTOWN
FESTIVAL WILL NOT HAVE TO MOVE
LOCATIONS NEXT YEAR.
THE CONSTRUCTION PROJECT WILL
STILL HAPPEN AND YOU HEARD A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THAT EARLIER
THIS EVENING IN THE LATEST
UPDATE BUT IT WILL BE DONE IN
PHASES ALLOWING THE WORK TO
HAPPEN OR CONTINUE AROUND THE
WEEKEND OF JUNE THE 6TH
THOUSAND TWENTY SIX.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO THANK
ADMINISTRATOR TONY I WOULD LIKE
TO THANK ADMINISTRATOR TAHANI
AND STAFF FOR BEING VERY HARD
TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN AND FOR
ALLOWING THIS WONDERFUL
TRADITION TO CONTINUE.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
.
WE HAVE THE FORCE TO CONSENT TO
JANDAMARRA MOTION.
PLEASE APPROVE THE CONSENT
GENDA MOVE BY COUNSEL FOR IA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA CATHERINE JERMOLUK.
I WOULD REQUEST THAT WE PULL
TWO ITEMS SEET 15 AND SEE A 16
BOTH RELATED TO THREE FIFTY S
FIFTY FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER
I'M SORRY COUNCILOR WATSON JUST
ONE QUICK NOTE ON C ONE I WANT
TO THANK THE CONSTITUENTS THAT
REACHED OUT TO SEE AMALEK AND I
AND UM SPOKE ABOUT NEEDS AT THE
SENIOR CENTER OF COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA AND I THEN HOSTED A
LISTENING SESSION AT THE ARBOR
SENIOR CENTER WITH OUR COUNTY
PARTNERS AND DURING THAT TIME
JOSH LANDEFELD, OUR SUPERVISOR
ALSO HEARD FROM CONSTITUENT
THAT THEY WANTED TO PAY FOR
ADDITIONAL STAFFING AT THE
SENIOR CENTER.
>> SO WE'RE GRATEFUL TO
ALLOCATE THIS THIS SENIOR
MILLAGE MONEY FROM THE COUNTY
TO A NEW STAFFER AND THAT FILLS
BOTH A CONSTITUENT IN THE
COMMUNITY NEED.
BUT ALSO IT JUST JUST ANOTHER
WAY THAT OUR PARK SYSTEM AND
OUR CITY IS INVESTING IN OLDER
ADULTS SERVER DISH.
I WANT TO JUST BE SURE THAT I
CAN DO THIS.
I WANTED TO SPEAK TO THE TO SEE
TOPOLSKI TWENTY ONE OR JUST SAY
A COUPLE OF WORDS ABOUT IT
BECAUSE WE HEARD THINGS ABOUT
IT EARLIER.
>> IF YOU WISH TO SPEAK SPEAK
THANK YOU.
>> OK I WASN'T SURE SO I JUST
WANTED TO MENTION THERE WILL BE
WE WILL BE GETTING A LOT
OF INFORMATION OUT ABOUT THIS
PROPOSAL TO EXPAND THE
BOUNDARIES AND ADOPT AN AMENDED
TIF PLAN.
>> IT'S COMPLICATED SO WE WILL
PUT THAT OUT IN WRITING AND
WITH MAKING SURE THAT WE HAVE
EVERYTHING ACCURATE.
THAT'S MY COMMITMENT AS IT IS
OTHER PEOPLE'S COMMITMENTS ON
COUNCIL.
>> BUT WHAT WE'VE HEARD IS THAT
THIS PROPOSAL DOESN'T MAKE
SENSE BECAUSE ANN ARBOR HAS NO
PROBLEM PROPERTY VALUES.
>> IT'S TRUE THAT THAT WE'RE
DOING PRETTY WELL AS A CITY BUT
THIS PROPOSAL TO EXTEND THE DDA
BOUNDARIES NORTHWARD WOULD HELP
OUT WITH AN AREA OF THE CITY
THAT COULD USE CONSIDERABLE
HELP IN INFRASTRUCTURE AND
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT THE DDA
CAN AND DOES.
>> SO THINK ABOUT THAT.
WE'VE ALSO HEARD THAT IF YOU
THAT WE SHOULD ODDLY THAT WE
SHOULD DISMANTLE THE DDA AND
SPEND THAT MONEY AS WE WISH.
>> I WANTED TO JUST MENTION A
COUPLE OF THE THINGS THAT I
THINK HAVE BEEN PRETTY
EFFECTIVE THAT THE DDA HAS DONE
.
>> THEY HAVE THEY HAVE
SUPPORTED AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT WITH A LOT
OF MONEY.
THEY DID CONTRIBUTE A MILLION
DOLLARS TO THE PURCHASE
OF LARRY TERRACE AND ONE POINT
TWO DOLLARS MILLION IN
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR DUN BOUGHT
TOWER THAT IS MONEY THAT IS NOT
IN THE CITY'S GENERAL FUND AND
WOULD NOT BE IN THE CITY'S
GENERAL FUND IN THAT MAGNITUDE
IF THE DDA IF WE SIMPLY STOPPED
HAVING THE DDA CAPTURE THE TIF
THAT IT CAPTURES THE OR NOT
IMMEDIATELY IN THE IN THE
CITY'S GENERAL FUND THE DDA HAS
AFFECTED THE TRANSFORMATION
OF FIFTH IN DETROIT AND THE
RESTORATION OF TWO WAY TRAFFIC
ON FIRST AND ASHELY WHICH HAS
LOWERED SPEEDS AND REDUCED
CRASHES.
THIS IS ANOTHER PROJECT NOT A
BOUTIQUE PROJECT OF THIS
COUNCIL BUT A BASIC SAFETY
PROJECT THAT'S IMPORTANT FOR
EVERYONE IN THIS CITY WHO
CANNOT AFFORD OR CHOOSES NOT TO
EMIT CARBON THROUGH THE USE
OF A VEHICLE.
>> THE DDA ALSO IN ITS PLAN
WHICH IS BASED ON QUITE A LOT
OF OUTREACH BOTH TO DOWNTOWN
STAKEHOLDERS AND TO RESIDENTS
WILL IT'S PLANNING TO CREATE
AND MANAGE THE DOWNTOWN SERVICE
TEAM TO KEEP DOWNTOWN CLEAN AND
WELL MAINTAINED.
THAT'S NOT EVEN THE HALF
OF WHAT'S IN THE REPORT THAT'S
ATTACHED TO THIS AGENDA.
>> SO I'M HOPING THAT EVERYONE
WILL MAKE ENOUGH FOR A REALLY
INFORMED ENGAGEMENT WITH THIS
QUESTION OF DDA EXPANSION AND I
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER I
DENHA THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WAS ALSO RAISING MY HAND TO
SPEAK BRIEFLY ON SEEI ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON ALREADY
COVERED SOME OF WHAT I WANTED
TO SAY BUT JUST WANTED TO
HIGHLIGHT THAT ADDING THIS FULL
TIME STAFF PERSON TO THE SENIOR
CENTER I THINK IS INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT NOT SIMPLY FROM THE
ADDITIONAL WORK THAT CAN BE
DONE THROUGH THROUGH EXECUTING
THE SENIOR MILLAGE BUT ALSO IN
ALL OF THE ACTIVITIES AND
EVENTS THAT I'VE HAD AT THE
SENIOR CENTER WHICH WHICH ALL
THREE WE HAVE HAD A NUMBER
OF RESIDENTS KIND OF COME
FORWARD AND TALK ABOUT THE
CHALLENGES THAT THEY
EXPERIENCED WITH OUR OUR STAFF
AT THE SENIOR CENTER NOT BEING
FULL TIME KIND OF BEING A
TEMPORARY STAFF THAT THAT CHURN
THAT MAY COME WITH THAT IN
STAFFING AND HOW IMPORTANT KIND
OF THOSE LONG TERM
RELATIONSHIPS ARE FOR OUR
SENIORS.
AND SO I THINK THIS IS A GREAT
FIRST STEP.
I KNOW THAT SEVERAL COUNCIL
MEMBERS ARE STILL EXPRESSING
THEIR DESIRE AND HAVING
CONVERSATIONS WITH STAFF ABOUT
LONG TERM MAKING SURE THAT OUR
SENIOR CENTER STAFF IS IS FULL
TIME, THAT THEY CAN BE
CONSISTENT AND SERVE THE SENIOR
POPULATION HERE IN ANN ARBOR
YEAR ROUND.
AND SO I JUST WANTED TO TO
EXPRESS MY GRATITUDE FOR THIS
WORK BUT ALSO SAY THAT I THINK
WE WE CAN STILL DO MORE IN
TERMS OF MAKING SURE THAT THE
STAFFING POSITIONS ARE OUR
PERMANENT THANK YOU.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSIONS ZIMMER
BRIGS, THANKS.
>> A COUPLE MORE COMMENTS
REGARDING C TWENTY ONE
REGARDING THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY'S
FIVE
AND PLAN TO EXPAND THE
BOUNDARIES FOLKS CAN FIND THAT
PLAN LINKED TO OUR AGENDA OR ON
THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY'S WEBSITE AS WELL AS
COUNCIL MEMBERS MENTIONED
THERE'LL BE MORE INFORMATION
SHARED ACROSS THE COMMUNITY
OVER THE NEXT COUPLE OF MONTHS
LEADING UP TO A PUBLIC HEARING
ON FEBRUARY 2ND HERE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS.
SO ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO DIG INTO
THAT AND START SHARING THEIR
THOUGHTS AND WITH US REGARDING
THAT AND THEN ALSO JUST DRAWING
FOCUS ATTENTION TO A13 THE
BOARD OF VIEW GUIDELINES FOR
POVERTY EXEMPTIONS, EXEMPTIONS
FROM PROPERTY TAXATION.
SO ESSENTIALLY THIS IS
SOMETHING WE ADOPT ON AN ANNUAL
BASIS REVIEWING WHAT ARE THE
GUIDELINES FOR FOR FOLKS THAT
CAN GET RELIEF FROM THEIR
PROPERTY TAX PROPERTY TAXES
EITHER 100 PERCENT, 75 PERCENT,
50 PERCENT TO 25 PERCENT BASED
ON INCOME AND ASSETS AND THOSE
HAVE BEEN EXPANDED A LITTLE BIT
THIS YEAR.
>> SO ENCOURAGE FOLKS THAT
MIGHT BE STRUGGLING TO TAKE A
LOOK AT WHAT THOSE WHAT THOSE
GUIDELINES ARE AND CERTAINLY
REACH OUT THROUGH THE PROPER
CHANNELS IF THEY ARE SEEKING
RELIEF COUNCIL BRACKMAN.
>> I ALSO WANT TO TALK ABOUT
C21, WHICH I WAS GOING TO PULL
THE ITEM WHICH YOU KNOW, JUST
TO POINT OUT THAT TONIGHT WHAT
WE'RE VOTING ON IS A RESOLUTION
OF A STATEMENT OF INTENT.
SO THERE ARE GOING TO BE OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES TO DISCUSS THIS
AND WEIGH IN.
BUT WHAT I WANTED JUST SAY THAT
HASN'T ALREADY BEEN SAID IS
HOPEFULLY DOWNTOWN BELONGS TO
ALL OF US.
IT'S A MAJOR ATTRACTION FOR
PEOPLE COMING OUT OF TOWN AND I
THINK THAT NEEDS INVESTMENT.
ANOTHER PART OF WHAT'S BEING
PROPOSED BY THE PLAN IS TO
CHANGE THE WAY THAT THE CAPTURE
HAPPENS RIGHT NOW IT'S RATHER
FLAT AND WE ALL KNOW THAT COSTS
DON'T STAY FLAT JUST IF YOU
LOOK AT, YOU KNOW, ANNUAL
SALARY INCREASES WOULD NOT EVEN
BE COVERED .
SO THAT IS TO SAY THAT I THINK
INVESTING IN OUR DOWNTOWN IS
VERY WORTHY.
SOME OF THE PROJECTS THAT HAVE
BEEN ACCOMPLISHED DOWNTOWN THAT
HAVEN'T BEEN MENTIONED PUBLIC
ART PROJECT PUBLIC RESTROOMS
WITH THE THROWN THE
IMPROVEMENTS THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT EARLIER IN THIS MEETING
RELATED TO THE TRANSIT CENTER
AND FOURTH AVENUE, THE BIKEWAYS
THAT ARE DOWNTOWN THAT YOU KNOW
HAVE PEOPLE FULLY SEPARATED
FROM TRAFFIC AND NOT TO MENTION
KNOW MAJOR REVITALIZATION
PROJECTS WHERE WE'VE SEEN A
CORNER GO FROM NOT ONLY UNSAFE
BUT KIND OF INHOSPITABLE TO BE
IN.
AND THE ONE THAT ALWAYS COMES
TO MY MIND IS THE ONE WHERE
BLANK SLATE IS ON THE CORNER.
I THINK THAT'S ACTUALLY IN
LIBERTY.
MAYBE IT'S VASTLY IMPROVED AND
THERE ARE PEOPLE THERE ALL THE
TIME AND IT'S LIVELY AND THAT'S
WHAT WE WANT TO SEE IN OUR
DOWNTOWN.
SO YOU KNOW, THAT'S JUST TO SAY
THAT I'M HAPPY TO SEE THIS MOVE
FORWARD AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
FURTHER DISCUSSION ABOUT IT FOR
THE DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THE 15 16 OPPOSED
THE CONSENT GENDER WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF 15 AND 16 HAS
APPROVED THE 10 COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTED IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THE SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO 10 TO ONE THANK ONE
10 C A 19 PARDON ME 18 IF I'D
COME ON TIME I WOULD HAVE
BROUGHT MY READING GLASSES.
WE NOW COME TO SEE A RESOLUTION
TO APPROPRIATE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUN AND EXECUTE A
GRANT AGREEMENT WITH THE NRA
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
TO DEVELOP AN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PROJECT AT THREE FIFTY
S FIFTH AVENUE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK SECONDED BY A
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE A COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
>> I JUST WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT
THAT THIS IS A QUITE COMPLEX
PROJECT.
OUR AGENDA WILL BE A VERY
EXCITING ONE AND I WAS
WONDERING IF WE COULD HAVE A
STAFF INTRODUCTION TO HELP US
OUT AND HELP US UNDERSTAND WHAT
HAS GONE INTO THIS PROJECT.
I BELIEVE MISS HALL IS ONLINE
AND I HAVE A FEW QUESTIONS THAT
PERHAPS WOULD PROMPT THIS
DISCUSSION.
SO MISS HALL, COULD YOU EXPLAIN
HOW AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECTS
ARE FINANCED ESPECIALLY ONE
OF THIS MAGNITUDE AND I GUESS
IN PARTICULAR WITH THIS PROJECT
COULD YOU HIGHLIGHT OUT OF THE
NUMEROUS SOURCES OF FUNDING HOW
MUCH OF IS LOCAL?
AND THEN IF I MAY I HAVE A
SECOND QUESTION THAT I MIGHT
JUST ASK RIGHT AWAY FOR YOU BUT
NOTING THE HIGH EXPENSE OF THE
PROJECT OVERALL, WHAT ARE SOME
ALTERNATIVES TO THE APPROACH
WE'VE TAKEN WITH THIS?
YOU KNOW, HOW WOULD YOU DO THIS
PROJECT IF IT WERE OUTSIDE
OF DOWNTOWN FOR INSTANCE OR
NOTING THE HIGH COST?
>> COULD YOU PURCHASE UNITS
SOMEWHERE ELSE FOR LESS MONEY?
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN AND THANK
YOU CITY COUNCILMAN THERE THIS
PROJECT HAS BEEN PART OF THE
CITY'S EFFORT TO ADDRESS THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN THE CITY
AVAILABLE FOR OVER TWENTY YEARS
AND VERY, VERY LONG TIME.
AND I CAN TALK ABOUT THE WHOLE
HISTORY OF OUR RECENT HISTORY.
IT'S A FOR THE PUBLIC IT'S
THREE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
APARTMENTS ALL OF THEM WILL BE
AFFORDABLE TO HOUSEHOLDS UNDER
EIGHTY PERCENT OF MEDIAN INCOME
OR LAST THERE WILL BE A THIRD
RESERVE FOR HOUSEHOLDS 30
PERCENT OF AREA MEDIAN INCOME
AND THEN THE REST WILL BE AT 60
PERCENT AND 70 PERCENT RMI AND
80 PERCENT BY THE APARTMENTS
ONE AND TWO BEDROOMS.
IT'S A PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
ANNENBERG HOUSING COMMISSION
THROUGH A NONPROFIT HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION AND
RELATED MIDWEST IS OUR
DEVELOPER THAT WE ARE
DEVELOPING THIS PROJECT WITH.
THE FINANCING IS VERY
COMPLICATED RELATED TO THE COST
OF DEVELOPMENT.
IF WE CAN GET THIS PROJECT EVEN
JUST FIVE YEARS AGO IT PROBABLY
WOULD HAVE BEEN ABOUT FORTY
PERCENT LESS EXPENSIVE WHICH IS
PRIVATE COWBIRD HAVE HAD A HUGE
IMPACT ON THE LABOR MARKET AND
THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND IN
ADDITION RECENTLY NEW TARIFFS
HAVE ALSO INCREASED COSTS.
UNFORTUNATELY WE DO NOT HAVE
ANY CONTROL OVER THE COST
OF LABOR MATERIALS IN OUR
MARKETPLACE.
THE COST OF CONSTRUCTION IS
ESSENTIALLY THE SAME ON ITS
MARKET RATE.
THE FLOATABLE WE DON'T GET ANY
DISCOUNTS FROM ARCHITECTS OR
ENGINEERS.
WE DISCOVER OUR MATERIALS.
WE ACTUALLY END UP PAYING MORE
FOR LABOR BECAUSE WE DO HAVE TO
PAY A LIVING WAGE COMPARED TO
MARKET RATE DEVELOPERS.
THE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS IS LONG
IN GENERAL THIS ONE'S
ESPECIALLY LONG SITE WE'VE BEEN
WORKING ON BUT IT'S LONG AND
GENERAL IT'S DIFFICULT.
IT'S COMPLICATED PARTICULARLY
WITH THE FARMHOUSE.
ONE THING THAT PEOPLE DON'T
UNDERSTAND USUALLY IS THAT WE
HAVE TO COMPETE FOR FUNDING FOR
THESE DEVELOPMENTS IN THE CITY.
DID DROPPED IN TWENTY TWENTY AN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MARKET WHICH
THANK YOU TO THE CITIZENS THAT
WHO PASSED WITH SEVENTY FOUR
PERCENT APPROVAL THAT IS NOT
SUFFICIENT FUNDING TO DEVELOP A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS.
THE BIGGEST SOURCE OF FUNDING
IS THE LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX
CREDIT WHICH IS AN IRS PROGRAM,
NOT A WHOLE PROGRAM.
>> IT TYPICALLY PAYS FOR 40 TO
60 PERCENT OF A PROJECT.
THE STATE IS THE ONE WHO
ADMINISTERS TAX FUNDING AND
THEY HAVE THEIR OWN PRIORITIES
THAT THEY PUBLISH EVERY TWO
YEARS.
FOR THOSE OF US COMPETING FOR
THIS TYPE OF FUNDING RIGHT NOW
AND FOR MANY DECADES THEY HAVE
PRIORITIZED AND GIVEN POINTS
FOR PROJECTS THAT ARE NEAR
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION JOBS
SERVICES
LIKE A PHARMACY OR
GROCERY STORE PARKS, ET CETERA
.
AND EVERY TIME WE'VE APPLIED
FOR LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX
CREDITS, PROPERTIES THAT ARE IN
THE DOWNTOWN AND ALWAYS BETTER
THAN OTHER PROPERTIES THAT ARE
OUTSIDE THE DOWNTOWN AND IT'S
BECAUSE OF THESE PRIORITIES AT
THE STATE LEVEL WHICH MAKES
SENSE BECAUSE THEY WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLDS
HAVE ACCESS TO JOBS AND
SERVICES AND IF WE DID AND
SCORE COMPARED TO OTHER
APPLICANTS WE WOULD GET NO
MONEY AT ALL.
WE AT OUR MOST RECENT
DEVELOPMENT PRIOR TO THIS ONE
WHICH WE CALL SEWICKLEY WHICH
IS THAT STATE STREET AND SECOND
CREEKSIDE CAUGHT ON THAT WE
APPLIED FIVE TIMES BEFORE WE
ARE FUNDED BECAUSE THEY'RE
OUTSIDE OF DOWNTOWN AND AND
THEY DID NOT SCORE VERY WELL.
SO IF THE CHOICE WAS BETWEEN
BUILDING IN THE DOWNTOWN OR NOT
BUILDING HOUSING AT ALL FOR THE
HOUSING I ALWAYS CHOOSE TO
BUILD THE DOWNTOWN YOU SAW FIT
OF THAT TWO HUNDRED THIRTEEN
MILLION DOLLARS IN PRO
DEVELOPMENT.
EIGHTY SIX MILLION CAME FROM
LOW TECH FUNDING WHICH IS ABOUT
40 PERCENT OF THE FUNDS WE'RE
APPLYING FOR 10 OR MORE
DIFFERENT FUNDING SOURCES ALL
OF WHICH HAVE DIFFERENT
PRIORITIES, DIFFERENT
REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT AND THEY
ALL AT ALL COSTS RIGHT NOW WE
HAVE ALL OF THAT THIRTEEN
MILLION ABOUT FORTY THREE
MILLION IS LOCAL FUNDS, A
VARIETY OF DIFFERENT LOCAL ONES
.
SO FROM THAT PERSPECTIVE THAT'S
ABOUT ONE HUNDRED THIRTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS A UNIT AND
LOCAL FUNDING WHICH TO ME IS A
BARGAIN.
YOU DEFINITELY COULD NOT
ACQUIRE A PROPERTY FOR THAT
MUCH DEFINITELY BUILD IT FOR
THAT MUCH AND I'M ALWAYS TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT OF FUNDING
SOURCES SO THAT WE CAN USE
LOCAL FUNDS FOR THAT.
I GET FINANCING.
WE ARE ALWAYS TRYING TO
LEVERAGE LOCAL FUNDS SPREAD
ACROSS AS MANY DEVELOPMENTS AS
POSSIBLE NOT NECESSARILY ALWAYS
STAY OUT OF THE HOUSING
COMMISSION BUT OTHER DEVELOPERS
THAT DO HOUSING AS WELL.
ONE ADDITIONAL LOCAL FUNDING
SOURCE WILL BE REQUESTING IN
JANUARY IS A MILLION DOLLARS IN
CLIMATE MORTGAGE FUNDS TO HELP
MEET THE CITY'S
CARBON NEUTRALITY GOALS.
IT WILL COST ROUGHLY SEVEN
POINT EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS FOR
ALL THE ADDITIONAL
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES THE
ELECTRIC BUILDING WITH
GEOTHERMAL.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE THAT THE
DIRECT COST IS NOT THE ONLY
ADDITIONAL COST.
THERE ARE OTHER COSTS RELATED
TO OUR FUNDING SOURCES BUT THIS
WILL HELP THAT THE DEVELOPMENT
SIDE AND WILL HAVE LONG TERM
OPERATING POSITIVE IMPACT IF WE
HAD UNLIMITED AND UNRESTRICTED
FUNDING FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
WILL PROBABLY MAKE SOME
DIFFERENT CHOICES ABOUT
LOCATION AND DESIGN OF OUR
PROPERTIES IF WE ONLY USE LOCAL
KNOWLEDGE GONE WE CAN DO THAT
BUT IT'S A TRADEOFF AS WE WOULD
BUILD A FRACTION OF WHAT WE CAN
BUILD BY USING OTHER LEVERAGE
RESOURCES AS FAR AS BUILDING IN
THE DOWNTOWN I WOULD LIKE TO
ADD THAT IF WE HAD IF WE WERE
TO DO THREE HUNDRED AND THREE
APARTMENTS OUTSIDE OF THE
DOWNTOWN WE WOULD FIRST HAVE TO
FIND LAND.
WE DO HAVE A FEW CITY OWNED
PROPERTIES OUTSIDE THE DOWNTOWN
THAT WE'RE PLANNING ON BUILDING
BUT BETWEEN THOSE SITES WE
WOULD MAYBE BUILD ABOUT 50
UNITS TOTAL AND IT'S THE
DENSITY AND LIMITATIONS OUTSIDE
THE DOWNTOWN THAT LIMIT THE
NUMBER OF UNITS WE GAMBLE.
SO I NEED TO COMPETE WITH THE
PRIVATE SECTOR TO ACQUIRE
ADDITIONAL VACANT PROPERTIES TO
BUILD BACK TO GET TO THREE
HUNDRED AND THIRTY APARTMENTS
OR I CAN COMPETE THE PRIVATE
SECTOR TO ACQUIRE EXISTING
PROPERTIES WHICH IS A STRATEGY
I'M TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO
DO RIGHT NOW AND AS NEW
CONSTRUCTION GETS MORE AND MORE
EXPENSIVE IT SHOULD MAKES
ACQUISITION MORE ATTRACTIVE
FINANCIALLY.
BUT IT IS HARD TO FIND A SELLER
WHO IS WILLING TO WAIT WHILE WE
SPEND TWO YEARS SECURING OUR
VARIETY OF FUNDING SOURCES WE
NEED TO PUT TOGETHER.
WE WOULD OTHERWISE NEED TO HAVE
LIKE FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS IN
THE BANK FOR EXAMPLE TO DO A
QUICK ACQUISITION, QUICK ACCESS
TO CAPITAL WHEN WE DO BUILDING
DOWNTOWN OUR TARGET POPULATION
IS NOT LARGE FAMILIES.
IT TENDS TO BE SMALLER
HOUSEHOLDS WHO WORK FOR THE
CITY WHO CHOOSE NOT TO BE
RELIANT ON VEHICLE THAT IS MORE
OFTEN PEOPLE WHO ARE YOUNGER OR
PEOPLE WHO CAN WHO CANNOT
AFFORD A VEHICLE OR CHOOSE NOT
TO HAVE A VEHICLE.
PEOPLE OF MY GENERATION I HAVE
50 PLUS OLDER CROWD.
WE ARE VERY MUCH CAR DEPENDENT
SO IT IS VERY HARD FOR PEOPLE
IN THE COMMUNITY THAT ARE USED
TO HAVING AN AVERAGE HAND ON
THEIR CARS TO IMAGINE THAT
THERE'S PEOPLE WHO WANT TO LIVE
IN THE DOWNTOWN WITHOUT A
VEHICLE.
BUT BELIEVE ME THERE ARE AND
THEY THEY WILL BE MOVING IN
THESE LOWER COST APARTMENTS THE
DOWNTOWN FOR FAMILY HOUSING
WHEN THERE'S FAR MORE PEOPLE WE
NEED TO BUILD LARGER UNITS WE
NEED TO BUILD AND LOWER DENSITY
AREAS OUTSIDE THE DOWNTOWN THEY
HAVE PLENTY OF PARKING PER UNIT
COST WILL LIKELY BE SIMILAR
BECAUSE WE'LL BE BUILDING
LARGER UNITS.
WE WILL LOSE THE ECONOMIES
OF SCALE OF HAVING HIGH DENSITY
HOUSING.
WHEN YOU'RE BUILDING OUTSIDE
THE DOWNTOWN THERE'S MORE
ASPHALT, MORE INFRASTRUCTURE
COSTS THAT YOU HAVE TO SPREAD
OVER FEWER HOUSEHOLDS.
WE DO HAVE OTHER SITES WE PLAN
ON BUILDING THESE FAMILY
APARTMENTS ARE THERE IN THE
PIPELINE THOSE WHAT YOU TAKE
FIVE TO SEVEN YEARS TO GET FROM
CONCEPT TO MOVING JUST LIKE ANY
NEW CONSTRUCTION PROJECT.
I WOULD JUST LIKE SAY THAT THE
SALES PRICE THERE WAS A
DISCUSSION IN THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT THE COST OF BUYING A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME VERSUS WHAT
IS COSTING FOR THESE AFFORDABLE
UNITS AND I'D LIKE TO ADDRESS
THAT BY SAYING IT'S A SORT
OF SIMPLISTIC VIEW TO LOOK AT
SIMPLY THE SALES PRICE OF A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME BECAUSE THAT
IS ONE OF MANY COST OF DOING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
THERE'S A LOT OF OTHER COST.
WHAT IS ALL THAT DUE DILIGENCE
THAT IT IS NOT PART OF THE
PURCHASE PRICE SO YOU HAVE TO
GET A SURVEY TYPE WORK IF
THERE'S CLOSING COSTS, LEGAL
FEES THE SECOND YEAR AND YOU
RENOVATIONS THAT NEED TO BE
DONE, IT IS REALLY RARE FOR THE
HOUSE TO BE IN PERFECT
CONDITION SO WE HAVE TO COMPLY
WITH THESE RENTAL INSPECTIONS
AND ALL OUR VENDOR INSPECTIONS
AND YOU ALWAYS HAVE TO ADD
RENOVATION TO OUR COST.
WE HAVE TO DO LEAD BASED PAINT
RADON AND ASBESTOS TESTING AND
IF WE NEED TO THEN WE HAVE TO
DO REMEDIATION WHICH
ACCESSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AND
WE LIKE TO EXCEED THEM SO IF
THERE'S A HOMEOWNER BUYING A
PROPERTY THEY CAN CHOOSE WHEN
OR IF OR DO THEY WANT TO EVEN
DO ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING?
DO THEY WANT TO MAKE
ACCESSIBILITY IMPROVEMENTS?
RENOVATIONS?
DO THEY WANT TO MAKE
WE ARE REQUIRED TO DO THOSE
RENOVATIONS?
THINGS BECAUSE OF THE TYPE
WE ARE REQUIRED TO DO THOSE
OF HOUSING WE'RE DOING.
THINGS BECAUSE OF THE TYPE
THE OTHER ADDITIONAL COSTS WE
OF HOUSING WE'RE DOING.
HAVE TO HAVE OPPORTUNITIES ARE
THE OTHER ADDITIONAL COSTS WE
CAPITAL RESERVES.
HAVE TO HAVE OPPORTUNITIES ARE
WE COME BUYERS DO NOT HAVE TO
CAPITAL RESERVES.
DO WHEREAS THE HOME BUYER CAN
WE COME BUYERS DO NOT HAVE TO
SPEND YOUR TIME LOOKING FOR A
DO WHEREAS THE HOME BUYER CAN
REALTOR LOOKING FOR A HOME,
SPEND YOUR TIME LOOKING FOR A
FINDING THEIR FINANCING, DOING
REALTOR LOOKING FOR A HOME,
ALL THEIR LEGAL PAPERWORK ETC.
FINDING THEIR FINANCING, DOING
WE ACTUALLY HAVE TO PAY PEOPLE
ALL THEIR LEGAL PAPERWORK ETC.
TO DO THAT INCLUDING OURSELVES
WE ACTUALLY HAVE TO PAY PEOPLE
.
TO DO THAT INCLUDING OURSELVES
SO THAT'S AN ADDITIONAL COST AS
.
WELL.
SO THAT'S AN ADDITIONAL COST AS
SO IF YOU ADD UP ALL THESE
WELL.
ACTUAL COSTS THAT IT WOULD TAKE
SO IF YOU ADD UP ALL THESE
TO ACQUIRE A SINGLE FAMILY HOME
ACTUAL COSTS THAT IT WOULD TAKE
FOR EXAMPLE FOR RENT IS
TO ACQUIRE A SINGLE FAMILY HOME
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
FOR EXAMPLE FOR RENT IS
IT'S GOING TO BE MUCH CLOSER
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
AND COST TO THE NEW
IT'S GOING TO BE MUCH CLOSER
CONSTRUCTION THAT WE'RE DOING
AND COST TO THE NEW
AT 350 SOPWITH AND WE'D HAVE TO
CONSTRUCTION THAT WE'RE DOING
DO THAT THREE HUNDRED THIRTY
AT 350 SOPWITH AND WE'D HAVE TO
TIMES TO GET THREE HUNDRED
DO THAT THREE HUNDRED THIRTY
THIRTY APARTMENTS WHICH MEANS
TIMES TO GET THREE HUNDRED
WE'RE COMPETING WITH OTHER
THIRTY APARTMENTS WHICH MEANS
PEOPLE.
WE'RE COMPETING WITH OTHER
WE'RE ALSO TRYING TO BUY SINGLE
PEOPLE.
FAMILY HOMES.
WE'RE ALSO TRYING TO BUY SINGLE
SO I THINK THAT ACQUIRING
FAMILY HOMES.
EXISTING MULTIFAMILY APARTMENTS
SO I THINK THAT ACQUIRING
IN THE FUTURE AND ADDING ALL
EXISTING MULTIFAMILY APARTMENTS
THESE ADDITIONAL COST WILL
IN THE FUTURE AND ADDING ALL
PROBABLY BE MORE COST
THESE ADDITIONAL COST WILL
EFFECTIVE.
PROBABLY BE MORE COST
>> THE NEW CONSTRUCTION
EFFECTIVE.
DEFINITELY BE MORE COST
>> THE NEW CONSTRUCTION
EFFECTIVE THAN BUYING A SINGLE
DEFINITELY BE MORE COST
FAMILY OR SMALL PROPERTIES.
EFFECTIVE THAN BUYING A SINGLE
THE HARD PART IS HOW RARE IT IS
FAMILY OR SMALL PROPERTIES.
FOR MULTIFAMILY PROPERTIES TO
THE HARD PART IS HOW RARE IT IS
COME OUT INTO THE MARKETPLACE
FOR MULTIFAMILY PROPERTIES TO
FOR US TO QUICKLY ACQUIRE THEM.
COME OUT INTO THE MARKETPLACE
SO IT HAS BEEN ABSOLUTELY
FOR US TO QUICKLY ACQUIRE THEM.
CRITICAL FOR DEVELOPMENT OF NEW
SO IT HAS BEEN ABSOLUTELY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR THE CITY
CRITICAL FOR DEVELOPMENT OF NEW
TO HAVE CITY OWNED ANY KIND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR THE CITY
OF PUBLICLY OWNED PARCELS THAT
TO HAVE CITY OWNED ANY KIND
WE DON'T HAVE TO COMPETE FOR.
OF PUBLICLY OWNED PARCELS THAT
WE DON'T HAVE HOUSING COSTS AND
WE DON'T HAVE TO COMPETE FOR.
WE HAVE PLENTY OF TIME TO PUT
WE DON'T HAVE HOUSING COSTS AND
OUR FINANCING TOGETHER.
WE HAVE PLENTY OF TIME TO PUT
HELP I ANSWERED YOUR QUESTIONS
OUR FINANCING TOGETHER.
COME REMEMBER MALIK.
HELP I ANSWERED YOUR QUESTIONS
>> THANK YOU.
COME REMEMBER MALIK.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THAT
>> THANK YOU.
EXTENSIVE ANSWER AND THANK YOU
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THAT
FOR YOUR DEDICATION TO
EXTENSIVE ANSWER AND THANK YOU
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND OUR CITY
FOR YOUR DEDICATION TO
.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND OUR CITY
>> THANK YOU.
.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF 015 ALL
>> THANK YOU.
IN FAVOR OR OPPOSE ITS APPROVE
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF 015 ALL
A TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
IN FAVOR OR OPPOSE ITS APPROVE
ALL VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
A TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
THUS SATISFYING EIGHT VOTE
ALL VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
REQUIREMENT TO SEE A SIXTEEN
THUS SATISFYING EIGHT VOTE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A PAYMENT
REQUIREMENT TO SEE A SIXTEEN
IN LIEU OF TAXES FOR THE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A PAYMENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT TO
IN LIEU OF TAXES FOR THE
THREE FIFTY S FIFTH AVENUE MOVE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT TO
BY COUNCILMAN MALIK SEPARATE
THREE FIFTY S FIFTH AVENUE MOVE
COUNTS MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
BY COUNCILMAN MALIK SEPARATE
PLEASE OF THE EIGHTEEN SIXTEEN
COUNTS MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
THANK YOU OR FAVOR OPPOSED IS
PLEASE OF THE EIGHTEEN SIXTEEN
APPROVED.
THANK YOU OR FAVOR OPPOSED IS
THANK YOU.
APPROVED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
THANK YOU.
MEETING MINUTES OF DECEMBER ONE
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE HAVE MOTION
MEETING MINUTES OF DECEMBER ONE
PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE MINUTES
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE HAVE MOTION
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE MINUTES
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
BECAUSE HE HAD ONE DISCUSSION
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
PLEASE OF THE MINUTES IN FAVOR
BECAUSE HE HAD ONE DISCUSSION
OR OPPOSED THE MINUTES APPROVED
PLEASE OF THE MINUTES IN FAVOR
SEE WHAT AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
OR OPPOSED THE MINUTES APPROVED
CHAPTER TWENTY SIX SOLID WASTE
SEE WHAT AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
MANAGEMENT OF TITLE TO THE
CHAPTER TWENTY SIX SOLID WASTE
CODE OF THE CITY BANABA MOVE BY
MANAGEMENT OF TITLE TO THE
COUNCIL MEMBER GESHE SECOND BY
CODE OF THE CITY BANABA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
COUNCIL MEMBER GESHE SECOND BY
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE OR
COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED ITS
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE OR
APPROVED DC ONE RESOLUTION TO
IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED ITS
APPROVE 2026 COUNCIL CALENDAR
APPROVED DC ONE RESOLUTION TO
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
APPROVE 2026 COUNCIL CALENDAR
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ONE
ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED TWO RESOLUTION CALLING
ON CONGRESS TO REQUIRE THE U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT TO AWARD ELIGIBLE
CONTINUUM OF CARE PROGRAM
RENEWALS FOR TWELVE MONTHS AND
SUPPORTING THE NATIONAL
ALLIANCE TO END HOMELESSNESS
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
GHAZI EDMAN DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF TWO THOUSAND SEVEN.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I'M PROUD TO HAVE MY NAME ON
THIS RESOLUTION.
IT'S IMPORTANT BECAUSE THE
STAKES ON THIS ISSUE COULD NOT
BE HIGHER AND OUR COMMUNITY
WE'RE CURRENTLY EXPERIENCING
THE FASTEST RISING RATE
OF HOMELESSNESS THAT THE CITY
AND COUNTY HAS EVER SEEN WITH A
DISPROPORTION AND IMPACT ON
OLDER ADULTS AND ON SINGLE
ADULTS WITH CHILDREN.
CONTINUUM OF CARE FUNDING IS
NOT ABSTRACT AND WASHTENAW
COUNTY OVER FOUR HUNDRED
FORMERLY HOMELESS INDIVIDUALS
INCLUDING CHILDREN, SENIORS AND
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES ARE
CURRENTLY HOUSED BECAUSE
OF THESE FEDERAL MANY THROUGH
PARTNERSHIPS WITH THE ANN ARBOR
HOUSING COMMISSION AVALON
HOUSING AMONG MANY OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS.
IF RENEWALS ARE DELAYED OR
SHORTENED THESE HOUSEHOLDS ARE
VERY REALISTIC.
THEY MAY RETURN TO HOMELESSNESS
AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT SIMPLY
CANNOT MAKE UP THIS FUNDING
STREAM.
I ALSO WANT TO MAKE IT IT'S
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE MAKE IT
CLEAR ABOUT WHY WE ARE HERE.
>> HOMELESSNESS DID NOT EMERGE
OVERNIGHT.
IT IS NOT THE RESULT
OF INDIVIDUAL FAILURE.
IT IS ONE OF THE MANY NEGATIVE
OUTCOMES OF HISTORIC
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING POLICIES
AND EXCLUSIONARY ZONING
PRACTICES THAT HAVE CONSTRAINED
THE AMOUNT AND TYPE OF HOUSING
THAT WE CAN BUILD AND RESULT IN
THE HOUSING WE DO HAVE
AVAILABLE BEING EXORBITANTLY
EXPENSIVE FOR THE REST OF US.
THIS ISN'T HYPOTHETICAL.
IT IS BACKED BY A MULTITUDE
OF RESEARCH.
THIS IS WHY WE NEED TO VIEW
THIS RESOLUTION AS CONNECTED TO
OUR OTHER WORK THAT WE ARE
DOING RIGHT NOW IN THIS CITY OR
TO OUR COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN AS A REMINDER THE WINDOW
FOR COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO
PROVIDE PUBLIC COMMENT ON THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
ENDS JANUARY 5TH.
IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT ALL OF US
ARE INVOLVED IN THIS PROCESS
CONNECTED TO HOMELESSNESS.
I ALSO WANT TO MAKE RESIDENTS
AWARE THAT I RECENTLY PROPOSED
IN ADDITION TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN TO
EXPLICITLY CONNECT HOMELESSNESS
AND HOUSING AND SECURITY TO
LAND USE AND PLANNING DURING
TOMORROW NIGHT'S PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING, COUNCIL
MEMBER LISA DISH WILL INTRODUCE
THE FOLLOWING LANGUAGE INTO THE
CLUB HOMELESSNESS AS AN OUTCOME
OF HOUSING SCARCITY RISING
COSTS AND DISPLACEMENT
PRESSURES AND MUST BE ADDRESSED
AS A LAND USE AND AFFORDABILITY
ISSUE.
THANK YOU ALL I HOPE WE CAN
CONTINUE TO ADVOCATE FOR
FEDERAL ACTION ON THIS ISSUE
WHILE ALSO ADDRESSING ROOT
CAUSES AND OUR OWN LOCAL
COMMUNITY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS MY
GRATITUDE TO MAYOR AND HIS
CO-SPONSORS FOR BRINGING THIS
RESOLUTION FORWARD THAT WE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR MYSELF.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL AND IA YOU
.
YEAH, BRIEFLY.
THANK YOU.
COUNCILMAN BOGOSIAN ONE FOR
YOUR REMARKS AND REALLY FOR
CONNECTING HOMELESSNESS TO THE
WORK THAT WE'RE DOING RIGHT NOW
WITH OUR LAND-USE PLAN AND AND
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR AND
OTHERS FOR BRINGING THIS
FORWARD.
>> I'D LIKE TO BE OUT AS A
CO-SPONSOR AS WELL.
COUNCILMAN HARRISON, I WANT TO
EMPHASIZE WITH STABLE HOUSING I
THINK YOU WANT TO EMPHASIZE
WHAT STABLE HOUSING ACTUALLY
MEANS FOR THE INDIVIDUALS WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT HOUSING STABILITY
CREATES A FOUNDATION FOR
EVERYTHING ELSE.
PEOPLE EXPERIENCING
HOMELESSNESS CAN MAINTAIN CAN
MAINTAIN STEADY EMPLOYMENT
WHETHER OR NOT WORRY ABOUT
WHERE THEY'LL SLEEP TONIGHT.
>> THEY COULD ACCESS MEDICAL
SERVICES CONSISTENTLY MANAGE
CHRONIC CONDITIONS AND GET THE
MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT THEY
NEED.
AND FOR FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN
STABLE HOUSING MEANS MEANS THAT
KIDS CAN STAY IN THE SAME
SCHOOL, BUILD RELATIONSHIPS AND
ACTUALLY FOCUS ON THEIR
EDUCATION INSTEAD OF DEALING
WITH THE TRAUMA OF DISPLACEMENT
WHEN SOMEONE HAS A ROOF OVER
THEIR THEY'RE NOT CYCLING
THROUGH OUR CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM FOR SURVIVAL RELATED
OFFENSES.
THEY'RE NOT IN CONSTANT CONTACT
WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT BECAUSE
THEY HAVE A STABLE ADDRESS AND
AREN'T FORCED INTO SUCH
SITUATIONS THAT CRIMINALIZE
HOMELESSNESS WITHOUT THIS
CONTINUUM OF CARE FUNDING WE'RE
NOT JUST TALKING ABOUT 300
PEOPLE LOSING HOUSING.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT BREAKING
THE CONNECTIONS THEY BUILT TO
JOBS DOCTORS, SCHOOLS AND
STABILITY.
THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT HUD
FUNDING IS DESIGNED TO DO TO
GET PEOPLE HOUSED AND SUPPORTED
SO THEY CAN REBUILD THEIR
LIVES.
THAT'S THE WHOLE POINT OF THIS
PROGRAM.
THE CONTINUUM OF CARE HAS BEEN
A LIFELINE FOR SO MANY PEOPLE
HERE IN IOWA AND ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
THE WORK OUR CONTINUUM OF CARE
HAS DONE IN OUR COMMUNITY HAS
BEEN TRANSFORMATIVE AND WE
CANNOT LET THIS CRITICAL
SUPPORT SYSTEM COLLAPSE.
I WANT TO THANK THE MAYOR AND
THE CO-SPONSORS OF THIS
RESOLUTION AND I WOULD LIKE TO
ADD MY NAME TO IT.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER JOSH, I WOULD LIKE TO
THANK MY COLLEAGUES FOR THEIR
ELOQUENCE AND WE'D LIKE TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR.
>> SORRY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
THIS LAST WEEK IN THE MEETING
OF THE URBAN COUNTY EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE, A STAFFER FROM THE
COMMUNITY FROM THE CONTINUUM
OF CARE WAS PRESENTING ON THE
CUTS AND ON THE IMPACTS TO OUR
ORGANIZATION AND THEN AT A
CERTAIN POINT THEY ACTUALLY HAD
TO CLOSE THEIR SLIDE SHOW AND
SAY WE JUST GOT NOTICE THAT
CHANGES AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL
MEAN NONE OF THESE SLIDES
ACTUALLY APPLY.
>> THAT'S HOW STARK THE
REORGANIZATION THAT'S COMING
DOWN FROM HUD IS AND HOW
PRICKET IS THE SITUATION OF OUR
SERVICE PROVIDERS IS RIGHT NOW
AND I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
KIND OF REITERATE, YOU KNOW,
THE SYSTEM ISN'T RUN BY ONE
AGENCY.
YOU KNOW IT'S A BIG
PARTNERSHIP.
AVALON HOUSING THE SHELTER
ASSOCIATION S.O.S COMMUNITY
SERVICES OZONE HOUSE MICHIGAN
THE ABILITY PARTNERS SAFE
HOUSE, THE ANIBA HOUSING
COMMISSION AND OTHERS THEY ALL
DELIVER ESSENTIAL HOUSING AND
CASE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS FUNDED
THROUGH THE CONTINUUM OF CARE.
AND WHEN THIS FUNDING IS
DISRUPTED IT AFFECTS THE ENTIRE
NETWORK AND THE CITY IS DONE AS
BEST IT CAN TO KIND OF BOLSTER
THIS ORGANIZATION.
>> WE DID ALLOCATE A MILLION
DOLLARS AND WE CALLED IT A
RESPONSE TO THE FEDERAL
ADMINISTRATION AND SOME THAT
WAS TO HELP SHELTER DIVERSION
THROUGH THE SHELTER ASSOCIATION
AND OUR SCHOOLS.
BUT WE CAN'T DO IT ALL ALONE.
I MEAN THE MAGNITUDE OF CUTS IS
ABOUT THREE POINT FOUR DOLLARS
MILLION AND SO WE REALLY HOPE
THAT OUR FEDERAL PARTNERS WILL
HELP CHANGE THE COURSE HERE
BECAUSE IT COULD BE A REALLY
DRASTIC IMPACT THAT HURTS SO
MANY ACROSS OUR COMMUNITY
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED DC THREE
RESOLUTION APPROVED 2026
COUNCIL COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
MALLIK DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
THREE COUNCIL EARLIER THAN
BRICKS AND I JUST WANT TO TAKE
A MOMENT TO THANK MY COLLEAGUE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SO MUCH FOR
HER DEDICATION AND WORK ON THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AS OUR
LIAISON.
>> SHE IS INDEFATIGABLE UH THE
AMOUNT OF TIME AND EFFORT SHE
SPENDS DIGESTING THESE ISSUES,
WORKING ON THEM, UNDERSTANDING
THEM AND THEN TRYING TO
COMMUNICATE THEM TO HER
COLLEAGUES INTO THE BROADER
COMMUNITY IS JUST IT'S IT
BOGGLES MY MIND SOMETIMES AND
DO WE ALL OCCASIONALLY GET
SOMETHING MIXED UP HERE AND
THERE?
SURE.
WHAT I LOVE ABOUT COUNCIL
MEMBER DISHES SHE'S ALWAYS THE
FIRST TO TO CORRECT THE RECORD
WHEN WHEN SOMETHING'S BEEN
MISCOMMUNICATE IT SO UM AND AND
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA FOR YOUR WORK AND PUTTING
THIS TOGETHER FOR US SO THAT
THINKS COUNCIL CALCIUM BRICKS I
WAS GOING TO DO JUST AS COUNCIL
MEMBER I DID WHICH I THINK
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH FOR HER
INCREDIBLE SERVICE ON PLANNING
COMMISSION THAT IS IT IS ONE
OF OUR IT IS OUR MOST TIME
CONSUMING COMMISSION BY FAR AND
IT HAS BEEN AN INCREDIBLE LIFT
TO CARRY ALONG WITH HER DAYJOB
,HER COUNCIL JOB, HER OTHER
COMMISSIONS AND THE AMOUNT
OF REPORTING THAT YOU DO BACK
HERE TO US AT COUNCIL ABOUT
EVERY ITEM AND THE AMOUNT
OF SUBSEQUENT MEETINGS WITH
STAFF AND ALL THE THINGS THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER IA JUST SAID
REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
WILLINGNESS TO CONTINUE SERVING
AND OUR COMMUNITY HAS A WE HAVE
WE ALL HAVE A GREAT DEBT TO
OFFER FOR DOING THIS WORK ALSO
THANKS TO COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
FOR PUTTING THIS TOGETHER AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO CONTINUING TO
SERVING AGAIN ON TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION, ROTATING COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN HAS IS ROTATING
OFF SO I'M ROTATING BACK ON AND
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO TAKING A
NEW COMMISSION RECREATION
ADVISORY COMMISSION AND LOOKING
FORWARD TO A SERVING COUNCIL
MEMBER MALCOLM, FURTHER
DISCUSSION WILL SHOOT FOR MY
PART I WILL YIELD TO NO ONE IN
MY PRAISE FOR THE BEATIFY DISH
.
YOU KNOW, PLANNING COMMISSION
IS INDEED A IT IS A LABOR
OF LOVE AND SHE LOVES IT AND WE
WE DELIGHT AND ARE MADE BETTER
AS A GROUP
AND A COMMUNITY BY
HER PRESENCE ON IT.
SO THANK YOU AND TO I WOULD
LIKE TO OF COURSE THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER MAYOR TIMUR DENHA FOR
TAKING THE LABORING OR ON THE
THE APPOINTMENT PROJECT THE
COMMITTEE APPOINTED PROJECT
CONTRARY TO EXPECTATION
COORDINATING THE SCHEDULE
OF ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS AND
30 SOME ODD PLUS COMMISSIONS IS
IS NOT IS A FAIR BIT OF WORK.
IT'S NOT A LOT OF FUN AND
NEVERTHELESS HE HAS DONE IT AND
AGAIN DONE IT ABLY IN A WAY
THAT YOU AGAIN REDOUNDS TO THE
BENEFIT OF US ALL.
>> SO THANK YOU.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER I'M SORRY THIS IS GOING
TO BE A LONG MEETING SO JUST
JUST BY WAY OF INFORMATION TO
THE COMMUNITY WE ARE ON THE
BUDGET AND LABOR COMMITTEE
TAKING A BIT OF A DEEPER
APPROACH.
THE COMMITTEE FOR A LONG TIME
OPERATED IN MORE OF AN AD HOC
WHENEVER WE HAD A LABOR ISSUE
TO DISCUSS AND WE ARE NOW
MOVING TO IN THE NEW YEAR TO A
MONTHLY SET SCHEDULE AND
DELVING IN TO TOPICS RELATED TO
BUDGET AND LABOR ON A REGULAR
BASIS.
AND I THINK THAT'S GOING TO BE
A GREAT CHANGE GOING FORWARD
FOR THE DISCUSSION.
>> WELL FAVOR I'LL POST IT IS
APPROVED DC FOR RESOLUTION
DIRECTING THE REMOVAL
OF NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH SIGNS IN
AFFIRMING CITY COMMITMENT TO
INCLUSIVE AND EVIDENCE BASED
PUBLIC SAFETY MOVE BY COUNCILOR
HARRIS AND BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
DISCUSSION OF DC FOR COUNCIL
REHEARSING OH I WAS AT A POINT
SORRY COUNCILOR ER THANK YOU
KNOW AGAIN.
OK SO THIS RESOLUTION REALLY
EXCITED ABOUT ITS AT ITS CORE
IT'S ABOUT ALIGNING THE
MESSAGES THAT OUR CITIZENS IN
OUR PUBLIC SPACES WITH WHO WE
ARE AND HOW WE APPROACH PUBLIC
SAFETY TODAY THE NEIGHBORHOOD
WATCH SIGNS STILL STAND ACROSS
THE HARBOR REALLY COME FROM A
DIFFERENT ERA.
THE PROGRAM THEY REFERENCE IS
NO LONGER ACTIVE.
THE HOTLINE NO LONGER FUNCTIONS
AND THE SIGNS ARE NOT CONNECTED
TO ANY CURRENT PUBLIC SAFETY
STRATEGY OF THE CITIES YET THEY
REMAIN POSTED THROUGHOUT
NEIGHBORHOODS CONTINUING TO
SEND A MESSAGE THAT NO LONGER
REFLECTS OUR VALUES OR OUR
PRACTICES.
>> I SUSPECT THAT MANY OF US
MYSELF INCLUDED DON'T EVEN
CONSCIOUSLY NOTICE THESE SIGNS
ANYMORE.
THEY'VE BECOME FURNITURE JUST
PART OF THE BACKGROUND I DRIVE
PAST ON EVERY DAY ENTERING MY
NEIGHBORHOOD AND BARELY
REGISTERED IT UNTIL THIS ISSUE
WAS RAISED TO ME.
>> BUT FOR MANY OTHER RESIDENTS
AND FOR VISITORS TO OUR CITY
PARTICULARLY FOR PEOPLE
OF COLOR, THOSE SIGNS ARE STILL
VERY VISIBLE AND THE MESSAGE
THEY SEND IS NOT ONE WELCOME
BUT OF SUSPICION.
>> WE KNOW FROM RESEARCH AND
LIVED EXPERIENCE THAT APPROACH
IS ROOTED IN SURVEILLANCE AND
SUSPICION DON'T MAKE
COMMUNITIES SAFER.
>> EVIDENCE SUGGESTS THAT SIGNS
AND PRACTICES ROOTED IN
CONSTANT VIGILANCE CAN ACTUALLY
REINFORCE FEAR AND ERODE
NEIGHBORLY TRUST PROMOTING THE
MYTH OF SAFETY RATHER THAN
SAFETY ITSELF.
AND ARBER HAS WORKED
INTENTIONALLY TO MOVE TOWARDS
EVIDENCE BASED PUBLIC SAFETY
STRATEGIES, CENTER TRUST
RELATIONSHIPS AND
ACCOUNTABILITY AND OUR SINEAD'S
SHOULD REFLECT THAT EVOLUTION.
THIS RESOLUTION CAME FORWARD
AFTER A RESIDENT APPROACHED ME
WITH CONCERNS ABOUT IT ABOUT
THE SIGNS WHICH I THEN BROUGHT
TO CITY STAFF STAFF VERY
QUICKLY REVIEWED THE STATUS
OF THE SIGNS AND BOTH THE
TRANSPORTATION AND POLICE
DEPARTMENT AGREED THAT REMOVAL
IS APPROPRIATE.
THERE ARE MORE THAN 600 SIGNS
CITY WIDE SO THIS WORK WILL
TAKE TIME BUT IT'S NOW UNDERWAY
IN SUBSEQUENT CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT THIS ISSUE WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON.
WE WORK TOGETHER ON THIS
RESOLUTION AND WE DID THAT IN
ORDER TO PUT THE ISSUE ON THE
RECORD AND ALONG WITH A
REASONABLE TIMELINE AROUND
REMOVAL.
SO AGAIN, THIS RESOLUTION IS
ABOUT ENSURING OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS COMMUNICATE
BELONGING RATHER THAN SUSPICION
AND THAT OUR PUBLIC SPACES
REFLECT THE KIND OF COMMUNITY
WE ARE ACTIVELY TRYING TO BUILD
AS WE REMOVE THESE LEGACY
SIGNS.
>> WE ARE ALSO CONTINUING TO
INVEST IN BETTER WAYS TO KEEP
RESIDENTS INFORMED, INCLUDING
THE NEW INCIDENTS DASHBOARD
THAT PROVIDES CLEAR UP TO DATE
INFORMATION ABOUT PUBLIC SAFETY
BY WARD AND CITY WIDE.
SO I HOPE MY COLLEAGUES WILL
SUPPORT THIS RESOLUTION FOR
DISCUSSION.
SIR HARRISON THANK YOU MAYOR
NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH SCIENCE
BEGAN APPEARING IN THE NINETEEN
SEVENTIES NOT LONG AFTER THE
PASSAGE OF THE FAIR HOUSING ACT
BUT IN OUR HAD ALREADY CHARTED
A DIFFERENT COURSE.
WE MADE HISTORY AS THE FIRST
CITY IN MICHIGAN TO ENACT A
FAIR HOUSING ORDINANCE BEFORE
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT REQUIRED
IT.
>> THAT ORDINANCE EXISTED
BECAUSE PEOPLE FROM DIFFERENT
BACKGROUNDS, DIFFERENT RACES
MARCHED, PROTESTED SIGN
PETITION CARDS SAYING THEY WERE
READY FOR HETEROGENEOUS
NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> WE ARE PIONEERS IN SAYING
THAT EVERYONE BELONGS AND YET
AND IN THE YEARS THAT FOLLOWED
NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH SIGNS
APPEARED HERE TO THE SAME SIGNS
THAT TOLD PEOPLE WHAT WHO'S
COMING IN?
WE PREVIOUSLY SAID OPEN DOORS
AND THEN WE PUT UP SIGNS THAT
SAID SCRUTINIZE WHO WALKS
THROUGH THAT?
THAT WAS A STEP BACKWARD FROM
OUR OWN VALUES THAT HISTORY
MATTERS BECAUSE SIGNS DON'T
JUST SIT THERE.
>> THEY SPEAK FOR MANY PEOPLE
ESPECIALLY BLACK AND BROWN
RESIDENTS AND VISITORS THOSE
SIGNS HAVE NEVER FELT NEUTRAL.
THEY SIGNAL THAT UNFAMILIARITY
ITSELF IS SUSPICIOUS THAT THEIR
PRESENCE MUST BE JUSTIFIED,
THAT BELONGING IS CONDITIONAL.
>> MANY OF US COULD NOT TALK
ABOUT THIS CULTURE WITHOUT
REMEMBERING TRAYVON MARTIN, A
YOUNG BLACK TEENAGER WALKING
THROUGH A NEIGHBORHOOD HE HAD
EVERY RIGHT TO BE IN YET
PERCEIVED AS A THREAT SIMPLY
FOR BEING THERE.
THAT TRAGEDY DID NOT HAPPEN IN
ISOLATION.
IT HAPPENED IN A BROADER
ENVIRONMENT THAT NORMALIZED
SURVEILLANCE OVER RELATIONSHIP
AND FEAR OVER FAMILIARITY.
>> AT THE SAME TIME THE
ASSUMPTIONS BEHIND NEIGHBORHOOD
WATCH RUN DIRECTLY COUNTER TO
WHO WE SAY WE ARE AS A CITY
TODAY OUR COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN EXPLICITLY CALLS FOR
MIXED INCOME MIXED USE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
WE ARE INTENTIONALLY PLANNING
COMMUNITIES WHERE RENTERS AND
HOMEOWNERS LIVE SIDE BY SIDE
WHERE STUDENTS, SERVICE
WORKERS, FACULTY FAMILIES AND
RETIREES SHARE SPACE, WHERE
PEOPLE WALK, VISIT FRIENDS,
ATTEND OPEN HOUSES AND MOVE
THROUGH NEIGHBORHOODS THAT MAY
NOT LOOK LIKE THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH WAS BUILT ON
AN OLD IDEA THAT HETEROGENEOUS
NEIGHBORHOODS CREATE DANGER AND
OPERAS BUILT ON THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT DIVERSITY
CREATES STRENGTH AS A
UNIVERSITY CITY ON FAMILIAR
FACES ARE NOT AN EXCEPTION HERE
THEY ARE THE NORM.
PEOPLE FROM AROUND THE COUNTRY
AND AROUND THE WORLD COME HERE
TO LIVE WORKS, STUDY AND VISIT.
OUR PUBLIC MESSAGING SHOULD
REFLECT THAT REALITY.
>> A CITY SHAPED BY GLOBAL
MOVEMENT CANNOT RELY ON SYSTEMS
DESIGNED TO QUESTION WHO
BELONGS.
>> THE CONVERSATION IS NOT
ABOUT ABANDONING SAFETY.
IT'S ABOUT REDEFINING PUBLIC
SAFETY IS ROOTED IN
SURVEILLANCE THAT IS ROOTED IN
SURVEILLANCE CREATES FEAR
PUBLIC SAFETY ROULET ROOTED IN
COMMUNITY CREATES TRUST AS WE
REMOVE SIGNS THAT HAVE LONG
COMMUNICATED WARNING WE ALSO
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO REPLACE
THEM WITH MESSAGES.
SAY SOMETHING BETTER WHEN
PEOPLE FEEL WELCOME WALKING
DOWN THE STREET VISITING
FAMILY, LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO
LIVE OR SIMPLY EXISTING IN
PUBLIC.
OUR NEIGHBORHOODS ARE NOT JUST
MORE INCLUSIVE THEY ARE SAFER
AND OUR POLED ON FAIR HOUSING
ONCE BEFORE TONIGHT WE HAVE THE
CHANCE TO LEAD AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION
DISCUSSION.
>> I WANT TO THANK BOTH OF YOU
FOR BRINGING THIS REALLY
IMPORTANT RESOLUTION TO THE
TABLE.
>> I'D LIKE TO BE EDITED SORRY
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR AND I I
DO NOT WANT TO PASS UP THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SAY A COUPLE
OF THINGS ABOUT THE PRESENT
OF THIS RESOLUTION.
THE PAST IS IMPORTANT BUT WE DO
UNDERSTAND FULLY WHY THIS
RESOLUTION IS IMPORTANT.
>> WE NEED TO BE CLEAR EYED
ABOUT WHAT ANN ARBOR IS TODAY.
>> IT'S A PLACE THAT'S RIGHTLY
LAUDED FOR ITS LIVABILITY GREAT
RESTAURANTS, FABULOUS MUSIC
SCENE OF ALL KINDS ALL THESE
THINGS ARE TRUE.
>> IT IS ALSO TRUE THAT THAT
ANN ARBOR RANKED AS THE EIGHTH
MOST SEGREGATED ECONOMICALLY
SEGREGATED CITY IN THE U.S.
ACCORDING TO A VERY WELL
RESPECTED TUFTE STUDY BY
TORONTO'S MARTIN PROSPERITY
INSTITUTE, THE STUDY ALSO NOTES
THAT WHERE YOU FIND ECONOMIC
SEGREGATION YOU ALSO FIND
SEGREGATION BY WHAT WE
SHORTHAND AS RACE, OCCUPATION,
EDUCATION AND MORE.
>> NOW LET'S BE CLEAR THAT YOU
CAN FIND SEGREGATION OF THIS
KIND EVEN WHERE YOU DO NOT FIND
ATTITUDES, DISCRIMINATORY
ATTITUDES AND INTENT TO
DISCRIMINATE.
>> I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT
SEGREGATION OF ANY KIND IS
SOMETHING THAT MOST ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS TODAY WOULD CHOOSE OR
ENDORSE.
BUT IT IS NONETHELESS A FACT IN
THIS CITY TODAY AND IT DOES
SEPARATE GROUPS OF RESIDENTS IN
PREDICTABLE WAYS AND THIS IS
THE PROBLEM WITH NEIGHBORHOOD
WATCH SEPARATION AFFECTS WHAT
PEOPLE PERCEIVE AS DIFFERENT
NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH ALERTS
PEOPLE TO WATCH OUT FOR
DIFFERENCE WHICH IS A TROUBLING
MESSAGE IN A CONTEXT
OF SEGREGATION WHICH IS OUR
CONTEXT.
THERE IS A TERRIFIC TWENTY
SIXTEEN LAW REVIEW ARTICLE IN
THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA
JOURNAL EXCUSE ME OF LAW AND
SOCIAL CHANGE WHICH SPEAKS
OF NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH PROGRAMS
IN THIS WAY WHILE POSITIVE IN
THEORY ULTIMATELY THESE GROUPS
LEAD TO VERY DANGEROUS
SITUATIONS WHEN BUILT ON THE
ASSUMPTION THAT WHAT IS
DIFFERENT IS INHERENTLY SUSPECT
AND DANGEROUS NOW I THINK WE
ARE FORTUNATE ANN ARBOR IS NOT
AN INCUBATOR FOR VIGILANTE
VIOLENCE SO THOSE DANGEROUS
SITUATIONS DON'T HAPPEN HERE
BUT THOSE SIGNS ARE STILL
CALLING AS YOU AS MY COLLEAGUES
HAVE BOTH SAID FOR A POLITICS
OF SURVEILLANCE AND FEAR RATHER
THAN WELCOMING AND THAT IS VERY
MUCH AT ODDS WITH THE CITY THAT
WE ASPIRE TO BE.
SO I'M REALLY HAPPY TO VOTE FOR
THIS AND I WOULD LIKE TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN GARCIA
.
I THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO JUST THANK
COUNCIL MEMBER IA FOR BRINGING
THIS FORWARD COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON, THIS IS SO IMPORTANT
AND I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO THANK
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH FOR PUTTING
THIS AND SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC
AND RACIAL CONTEXT AND I WOULD
ALSO LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR
OR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED TO
HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A CLOSED
SESSION TODAY.
NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE
CORRECTION PART
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS CAN HAVE OF MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CLERK'S
DEPARTMENT VISCOUNTS
LOGISTICALLY COMFORTABLE HEGAZI
ADMIN DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT'S APPROVED.
>> DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY?
NO THANK YOU.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW MAY I HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNSEL NO.
SECOND MY COUNSEL NEVER BRINGS
DISCUSSION IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED